# III.B Program Goals, Objectives, and Priorities

The Office of Science’s (SC) mission is to deliver scientific discoveries and major scientific tools to transform our understanding of nature and advance the energy, economic, and national security of the United States. SC is the Nation’s largest Federal sponsor of basic research in the physical sciences and the lead Federal agency supporting fundamental scientific research for our Nation’s energy future. 

SC accomplishes its mission and advances national goals by supporting: • The frontiers of science—exploring nature’s mysteries from the study of fundamental subatomic particles, atoms, and molecules that are the building blocks of the materials of our universe and everything in it to the DNA, proteins, and cells that are the building blocks of life. Each of the programs in SC supports research probing the most fundamental disciplinary questions. • The 21st Century tools of science—providing the nation’s researchers with 28 state-of- the-art national scientific user facilities, the most advanced tools of modern science, propelling the U.S. to the forefront of science, technology development, and deployment through innovation. • Science for energy and the environment―paving the knowledge foundation to spur discoveries and innovations for advancing the Department’s mission in energy and environment. SC supports a wide range of funding modalities from single principal investigators to large team-based activities to engage in fundamental research on energy production, conversion, storage, transmission, and use, and on our understanding of the earth systems. 

SC is an established leader of the U.S. scientific discovery and innovation enterprise. Over the decades, SC investments and accomplishments in basic research and enabling research capabilities have provided the foundations for new technologies, businesses, and industries, making significant contributions to our nation’s economy, national security, and quality of life 

The Office of Electricity (OE) leads the U.S. Department of Energy’s R&D to strengthen and modernize our nation’s power grid to maintain a reliable, affordable and secure electricity delivery infrastructure. To ensure every American home and business has reliable access to affordable energy, OE works closely with industry and other stakeholders to drive technological and operational advancements to sustain U.S. global leadership in energy. OE drives innovation to strengthen, improve, and transform our electricity delivery system to reliably power homes, businesses, and communities. OE leverages its expertise in cutting-edge research, system-level analyses, and partnerships with stakeholders to develop advanced systems and technologies that meet today’s needs and are ready for tomorrow’s challenges. 

The Office of Environmental Management’s (EM) mission is to complete the safe cleanup of the environmental legacy brought about from decades of nuclear weapons development and government-sponsored nuclear energy research. EM's priority is to ensure the safety and health of the public and EM’s workforce while continuing to protect the environment. The EM program is responsible for the cleanup of millions of gallons of radioactive waste; the safe management and disposition of thousands of tons of spent nuclear fuel and nuclear material;
