# VIII.A Administrative and National Policy Requirements

Additional policy provisions applicable to this RFA are included in the list below. Awards made under this RFA are subject to the respective Administrative and National Policy Requirements. The full text of each provision is in Section IX of this RFA and may be accessed by navigating to the hyperlinks below: 1. Administrative Requirements 2. Availability of Funds 3. Buy America Preference for Infrastructure Projects 4. Conference Spending (February 2015) 5. Commitment of Public Funds 6. Corporate Felony Conviction and Federal Tax Liability Representations (March 2014) 7. Covered Individual Definition, Designation, and Responsibility 8. Digital Persistent Identifier (PID) 9. Environmental, Safety and Health (ES&H) Performance of Work at DOE Facilities 10. Evaluation and Administration by Non-Federal Personnel 11. Federal, State, and Local Requirements 12 Foreign Travel 13. Framework for Nucleic Acid Synthesis Screening Requirement 14. Funding Restrictions 15. Government Right to Reject or Negotiate 16. Implementation of Presidential Memorandum Simplifying the Funding of Energy Infrastructure and Critical Mineral and Material Projects 17. Intergovernmental Review 18. Logos and Wordmarks 19. Modifications 20. National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Compliance 21. Nondisclosure and Confidentiality Agreements Representations (June 2015) 22. Notice Regarding Eligible/Ineligible Activities 23. Portable Document Format (PDF) Generation 24. Prohibition on the Use of Funds for Activities Related to FASC-Prohibited Unmanned Aircraft Systems 25. Prohibition on Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment 26. Prohibition on Discrimination and Harassment 27. Prohibition on Entities of Concern 28. Prohibition on Lobbying Activity 29. Prohibition Related to Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Programs 30. Proprietary Application Information 31. Publications 32. Registration Requirements 33. Research Misconduct 34. Research Security Training Requirement 35. Rights in Technical Data 36. Statement of Federal Stewardship
