# IX. Other Information

## A. Checklist for Avoiding Common Errors

Note that not all items in this checklist will apply to every submission under every RFA. 

Item Issue Applications Submitted in Grants.gov. Do not submit applications in PAMS or FedConnect. Grants.gov Submission Ensure that applications are submitted under the correct Opportunity Number. 

Standard Form (SF)-424 Research and Related (R&R): - Attach nothing to Field 20 - Attach nothing to Field 21 

SF-424 Research and Related Other Project Information form: - Attach the abstract to Field 7 - Attach the Project Narrative, with all appendices, to Field 8 - Attach nothing to Field 9 - Attach nothing to Field 10 - Attach nothing to Field 11 - Attach the list of individuals who should not serve as merit reviewers (Collaborator Template) and Genesis Mission Phase I/II Application Template to Field 12 - Do not attach other files to Field 12 - NOTE: Files attached to Field 12 will not be shared with merit reviewers. Letters of Intent (LOIs) Phase II Applications Only: - Submit your LOI in PAMS. - Do not submit your LOI in Grants.gov. - Do not attach your LOI to the SF-424 Research and Related (R&R) form. - Follow the instructions in Section IV for the preparation of an LOI. Pre-Applications Not applicable Page Limits Strictly followed throughout application, including particular attention to: - Project Narrative and appendices - Biographical sketches 

Item Issue - Data Management and Sharing Plans (DMSPs) - Letter(s) of Collaboration or Access, if any Personally Identifiable Information None present in the application Project Narrative Composed of one PDF file including all appendices (bibliography, facilities, equipment, DMSP for Phase II applications only) Project Summary / Abstract Name of PI, PI’s institutional affiliation(s), Co-Investigator(s), Co-Investigator’s institutional affiliation(s) DOE Title Page Follow instructions closely Budget Use current negotiated indirect cost and fringe benefit rates Budget Justification (attached to budget) Justify all requested costs Biographical Sketches Follow page limits strictly and do not include list of collaborators. Attach the biographical sketch to the Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) Form. Current and Pending Support Ensure complete listing of all activities, regardless of source of funding. Attach the current and pending support to the Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) Form. List of Individuals who Should not Serve as Merit Reviews Attach to Field 12 of the SF-424 Research and Related Other Project Information form. Data Management and Sharing Plans (DMSP) Phase I applications: Not required. It will be required at the time of award. Phase II applications: - If referring to an experiment’s DMSP, describe the relationship to the proposed research. - Include a DMSP even if no experimental data is expected. Institutions capable of being funded through the DOE Field Work System If DOE/NNSA National Laboratories and/or DOE sites are permitted to submit under this RFA: - Do not create new institutions in the PAMS website. - Submit applications in Grants.gov using the name of the laboratory or site in Field 5 of the SF-424(R&R) application form, not the contractor operating the laboratory or site. 

Item Issue Submissions under this RFA will be evaluated for technical merit, but any resulting funding, work, or awards will be made under the laboratory or site’s contract with DOE. No separate financial assistance awards will be made. No administrative provisions of this RFA will apply to the laboratory or any laboratory subcontractor. 

## B. How-To Guides

The how-to guides provided in this section are intended as general guidance about SC. Not all parts will be applicable to every RFA, every application, or every institution. 

### 1. How to Distinguish Between a New and Renewal Application

New Application: An application must be submitted as “new” in the following circumstances: • When applying for funding to create a new research award that has not previously received DOE funding, including any funding for the current year, • When applying for funding to support continued research from the same applicant institution as the current OT Agreement but with a significant change in fundamental nature of the research, or • When applying for funding to support continued research supported by an existing DOE award but at a new applicant institution. 

Renewal Application: A renewal application is appropriate when funds are requested for an award from the same recipient/applicant institution that has no significant changes in the following items: • The award’s senior leadership, and • The fundamental nature of the award. 

A change in an award’s PI does not necessarily require submission as a new application: The change in personnel must be considered in light of other changes. 

Renewal applications compete for funds with all other peer-reviewed applications and must be developed as fully as though the applicant were applying for the first time. Renewal applications must be submitted by the same sponsoring institution as that holding the current award for which renewal funding is requested, and the proposed research topic must be logical scientific extensions of the research that has been performed in the current award. 

### 2. How Federally Affiliated Organizations May Participate and Be Funded

#### Value/Funding for DOE/NNSA National Laboratories and Non-DOE/NNSA FFRDCs

For OT awards, the value of, and funding for, a DOE/NNSA National Laboratory contractor, a non-DOE/NNSA Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) contractor, or another Federal agency’s portion of the work will not be included in the award to the successful applicant. DOE will fund a DOE/NNSA National Laboratory contractor through the DOE field work authorization system or other appropriate process and may fund non- DOE/NNSA FFRDC contractors and other Federal agencies through an interagency agreement in accordance with the Economy Act, 31 U.S.C. § 1535, or other statutory authority. 

#### Responsibility

The successful prime applicant/recipient (lead organization) will be the responsible authority regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues, including but not limited to, disputes and claims arising out of any agreement between the applicant and any team member, and/or subrecipient. 

If an award is made to a DOE/NNSA National Laboratory, all Disputes and Claims will be resolved in accordance with the terms and conditions of the DOE/NNSA National Laboratory’s management and operating (M&O) contract, as applicable, in consultation between DOE and the prime recipient. 

If an award is made to another Federal agency or its FFRDC contractor, all Disputes and Claims will be resolved in accordance with the terms and conditions of the interagency agreement in consultation between DOE and the prime recipient. 

### 3. How Federally Affiliated Organizations May Apply

#### DOE SC National Laboratories

DOE Office of Science (SC) National Laboratories (Ames National Laboratory, Argonne National Laboratory, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility) 

DOE SC National Laboratories, if eligible either as a prime applicant or a proposed team member on another entity’s application, should ensure that their cognizant DOE Agreements Officer provides written authorization. This authorization does not need to be submitted with the application as part of the Budget Justification for DOE SC National Laboratory Contractor File. However, this authorization must be provided prior to any award being made. [This is not required for the National Energy Technology Laboratory because it is a Government Owned/Government Operated (GOGO) Laboratory.] If a DOE SC National Laboratory Contractor is selected for award, or proposed as a team member, the proposed work will be authorized under the DOE field work authorization system or other appropriate process and performed under the laboratory Contractor’s M&O contract, as applicable. The authorization may be addressed “To Whom It May Concern:.” The following wording is acceptable for the authorization: 

“Authorization is granted for the _____________ Laboratory to participate in the proposed project. The work proposed for the laboratory is consistent with or complementary to the missions of the laboratory and will not adversely impact execution of the DOE/NNSA assigned programs at the laboratory.” 

(End of acceptable authorization) 

If a DOE/NNSA FFRDC is selected for award negotiation, the proposed work will be authorized under the DOE work authorization process and performed under the laboratory’s Management and Operating (M&O) contract. 

#### DOE Non-SC/NNSA National Laboratories

DOE Non-SC/NNSA National Laboratories (Idaho National Laboratory, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Los Alamos National Laboratory, National Laboratory of the Rockies, Sandia National Laboratories, and Savannah River National Laboratory) 

DOE Non-SC/NNSA National Laboratories, if eligible either as a prime applicant or a proposed team member on another entity’s application, should consult with their relevant site office and their cognizant DOE/NNSA Agreements Officer about the time at which written authorization should be provided. This authorization may be submitted with the application as part of the Budget Justification for DOE/NNSA National Laboratory Contractor File. [This is not required for the National Energy Technology Laboratory because it is a Government Owned/Government Operated (GOGO) Laboratory.] Please note that failure to provide this authorization may result in rejection of an application prior to merit review. If a DOE/NNSA National Laboratory Contractor is selected for award, or proposed as a team member, the proposed work will be authorized under the DOE field work authorization system or other appropriate process and performed under the laboratory Contractor’s M&O contract, as applicable. The authorization may be addressed “To Whom It May Concern:”. The following wording is acceptable for the authorization: 

“Authorization is granted for the _____________ Laboratory to participate in the proposed project. The work proposed for the laboratory is consistent with or complementary to the missions of the laboratory and will not adversely impact execution of the DOE/NNSA assigned programs at the laboratory.” 

(End of acceptable authorization) 

If a DOE/NNSA FFRDC is selected for award negotiation, the proposed work will be authorized under the DOE work authorization process and performed under the laboratory’s Management and Operating (M&O) contract. 

#### Non-DOE/NNSA FFRDCs

Non-DOE/NNSA FFRDCs, if eligible either as a prime applicant or a proposed team member on another entity’s application, should follow the following guidelines: 

The prime applicant must obtain written authorization for non-DOE/NNSA FFRDC participation. The cognizant Agreements Officer for the Federal agency sponsoring the FFRDC contractor must authorize in writing the participation of the FFRDC contractor on the proposed project and this authorization should be submitted with the application. The written authorization must also contain a determination that the use of a FFRDC contractor is consistent with the contractor’s authority under its award and does not place the FFRDC contractor in direct competition with the private sector, in accordance with FAR Part 17.5. Please note that failure to provide this authorization may result in rejection of an application prior to merit review. The authorization may be addressed “To Whom It May Concern:”. The following wording is acceptable for the authorization: 

“Authorization is granted for the _____________ Laboratory to participate in the proposed project. The work proposed for the laboratory is consistent with or complementary to the missions of the laboratory and will not adversely impact execution of the (insert agency) assigned programs at the laboratory. This laboratory is authorized to perform the work proposed in the application submitted under DOE Funding Opportunity Announcement <<Include the RFA number on the cover page>> by the following statutory authority (insert statute name, citation, and section).” 

(End of acceptable authorization) 

#### Other Federal Agencies

Other Federal Agencies, if eligible either as a prime applicant or a proposed team member on another entity’s application, must include in their budget justifications any specific statutory authorization (other than the Economy Act) that permits their receipt of an interagency agreement or that authorizes the payment of certain costs. 

### 4. How Consortia May be Used

#### Incorporated Consortia

Incorporated consortia are eligible to apply for funding as a prime recipient (lead organization) or subrecipient (team member). 

Each incorporated consortium must have an internal governance structure and a written set of internal rules. Upon request, the consortium must provide a written description of its internal governance structure and its internal rules to the DOE Contracting Officer. There is no requirement that subawards be formalized into incorporated consortia. 

#### Unincorporated Consortia

Unincorporated consortia (team arrangements) must designate one member of the consortium to serve as the prime recipient/consortium representative (lead organization). There is no requirement that subawards be formalized into unincorporated consortia. 

Upon request, unincorporated consortia must provide the DOE Agreements Officer with a collaboration agreement, commonly referred to as the articles of collaboration, which sets out the rights and responsibilities of each consortium member. This agreement binds the individual consortium members together and should discuss, among other things, the consortium’s: • Management structure; • Method of making payments to consortium members; • Means of ensuring and overseeing members’ efforts on the project; • Provisions for members’ cost sharing contributions (though neither required nor considered); and • Provisions for ownership and rights in intellectual property developed previously or under the agreement. 

Note that a consortium is applied for in one application and results in one award with subawards to consortia members. Multi-institutional teams may, if permitted under this RFA, submit collaborative applications with each institution submitting its own application with an identical Project Narrative, resulting in multiple awards to the collaborating institutions. 

### 5. How to Submit Letters of Intent

This RFA does not require a Letter of Intent for Phase I. Letters of Intent are strongly encouraged for Phase II. 

It is important that the LOI be a single file with extension .pdf, .docx, or .doc. The filename must not exceed 50 characters. The PI and anyone submitting on behalf of the PI must register for an account in PAMS before it will be possible to submit a LOI. All PIs and those submitting LOIs on behalf of PIs are encouraged to establish PAMS accounts as soon as possible to avoid submission delays. 

Submit Your Letter of Intent: • Create your LOI outside the system and save it as a file with extension .docx, .doc, or .pdf. Make a note of the location of the file on your computer so you can browse for it later from within PAMS. • Log into PAMS and click the Proposals tab. Click the “View / Respond to Funding Opportunity Announcements” link and find the current announcement in the list. Click the “Actions/Views” link in the Options column next to this announcement to obtain a dropdown menu. Select “Submit Letter of Intent” from the dropdown. • On the Submit Letter of Intent page, select the institution from which you are submitting this LOI from the Institution dropdown. If you are associated with only one institution in the system, there will only be one institution in the dropdown. • Note that you must select one and only one PI per LOI; to do so, click the “Select PI” button on the far-right side of the screen. Find the appropriate PI from the list of all registered users from your institution returned by PAMS. (Hint: You may have to sort, filter, or search 

through the list if it has multiple pages.) Click the “Actions” link in the Options column next to the appropriate PI to obtain a dropdown menu. From the dropdown, choose “Select PI.” • If the PI for whom you are submitting does not appear on the list, it means he or she has not yet registered in PAMS. For your convenience, you may have PAMS send an email invitation to the PI to register in PAMS. To do so, click the “Invite PI” link at the top left of the “Select PI” screen. You can enter an optional personal message to the PI in the “Comments” box, and it will be included in the email sent by PAMS to the PI. You must wait until the PI registers before you can submit the LOI. Save the LOI for later work by clicking the “Save” button at the bottom of the screen. It will be stored in “My Letters of Intent” for later editing. • Enter a title for your LOI. • Select the appropriate technical contact from the Program Manager dropdown. • To upload the LOI file into PAMS, click the “Attach File” button at the far-right side of the screen. Click the “Browse” (or “Choose File” depending on your browser) button to search for your file. You may enter an optional description of the file you are attaching. Click the “Upload” button to upload the file. • At the bottom of the screen, click the “Submit to DOE” button to save and submit the LOI to DOE. • Upon submission, the PI will receive an email from the PAMS system <PAMS.Autoreply@science.doe.gov> acknowledging receipt of the LOI. • If this RFA requires that LOIs be submitted only by an authorized institutional official, the PI (or the PI’s delegate) will only be able to send the LOI to a user at the PI’s institution with the institutional “submit to DOE” privilege. That user will then apply an institutional countersignature to the LOI when it is sent to DOE. 

You are encouraged to register for an account in PAMS at least a week in advance of the LOI submission deadline so that there will be no delays with your submission. 

WARNING: The PAMS website at https://pamspublic.science.energy.gov/ will permit you to revise a previously submitted LOI in the time between your submission and the deadline. Doing so will remove your previously submitted version from consideration. If you have not submitted the revision at the time of the deadline, you will not have a valid submission. Please pay attention to the deadline. 

Do not attach pre-applications to Field 20 of the SF-424(R&R) form or letters of intent to Field 21 of the SF-424(R&R) form. Doing so will render your application unreadable. 

### 6. How to Submit a Pre-Application

This RFA does not require a pre-application. 

### 7. How to Register and Submit an Application in Grants.gov

This section provides the application submission and receipt instructions for applications to SC. Please read the following instructions carefully and completely. 

#### Electronic Delivery

SC is participating in the Grants.gov initiative to provide the grant community with a single site to find and apply for funding opportunities. SC requires applicants to submit their applications online through Grants.gov. 

#### How to Register to Apply through Grants.gov

a. Instructions: Read the instructions below about registering to apply for SC funds. Applicants should read the registration instructions carefully and prepare the information requested before beginning the registration process. Reviewing and assembling the required information before beginning the registration process will alleviate last-minute searches for required information. 

Organizations must have an active System for Award Management (SAM) registration which provides a Unique Entity Identifier (UEI), and Grants.gov account to apply for grants. If individual applicants (those submitting on their own behalf) are eligible to apply for this funding opportunity, they need only refer to steps 2 and 3 below. 

Creating a Grants.gov account can be completed online in minutes, but SAM registration may take several weeks. Therefore, an organization’s registration should be done in sufficient time to ensure it does not impact the entity’s ability to meet required application submission deadlines. 

1) Register with SAM: All organizations applying online through Grants.gov must register with SAM at https://www.sam.gov. Failure to register with SAM will prevent your organization from applying through Grants.gov. SAM registration must be renewed annually. For more detailed instructions for registering with SAM, refer to: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-registration/ 

2) Create a Grants.gov Account: The next step is to register an account with Grants.gov. Follow the on-screen instructions provided on the registration page. 

3) Add a Profile to a Grants.gov Account: A profile in Grants.gov corresponds to a single applicant organization the user represents (i.e., an applicant) or an individual applicant. If you work for or consult with multiple organizations and have a profile for each, you may log in to one Grants.gov account to access all of your grant applications. To add an organizational profile to your Grants.gov account, enter the UEI for the organization in the UEI field. If you are an individual applicant submitting on your own behalf, you do not need a UEI to add the profile. For more detailed instructions about creating a profile on Grants.gov, refer to: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant- registration/add-profile 

4) EBiz POC Authorized Profile Roles: After you register with Grants.gov and create an Organization Applicant Profile, the organization applicant’s request for Grants.gov roles 

and access is sent to the Electronic Business Point of Contact (EBiz POC)19. The EBiz POC will then log in to Grants.gov and authorize the appropriate roles, which may include the Authorized Organization Representative (AOR) role, thereby giving you permission to complete and submit applications on behalf of the organization. You will be able to submit your application online any time after you have been assigned the AOR role. For more detailed instructions about creating a profile on Grants.gov, refer to: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-registration/ebiz-poc-authorizes-profile-roles 

5) Track Role Status: To track your role request, refer to: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-registration/track-profile-role-status 

b. Electronic Signature: When applications are submitted through Grants.gov, the name of the organization applicant with the AOR role that submitted the application is inserted into the signature line of the application, serving as the electronic signature. The EBiz POC must authorize people who are able to make legally binding commitments on behalf of the organization as a user with the AOR role; this step is often missed and it is crucial for valid and timely submissions. 

#### How to apply to SC via Grants.gov

Grants.gov applicants can apply online using Workspace. Workspace is a shared, online environment where members of a grant team may simultaneously access and edit different webforms within an application. For each RFA, you can create individual instances of a workspace. 

For an overview of applying on Grants.gov using Workspaces, refer to: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/workspace-overview/ 

1) Create a Workspace: Creating a workspace allows you to complete it online and route it through your organization for review before submitting. 

2) Complete a Workspace: Add participants to the workspace to work on the application together, complete all the required forms online or by downloading PDF versions, and check for errors before submission. The Workspace progress bar will display the state of your application process as you apply. As you apply using Workspace, you may click the blue question mark icon near the upper-right corner of each page to access context-sensitive help. 

a. Adobe Reader: If you decide not to apply by filling out webforms you can download individual PDF forms in Workspace so that they will appear similar to other Standard forms. The individual PDF forms can be downloaded and saved to your local device storage, network drive(s), or external drives, then accessed through Adobe Reader. 

19 Individuals with the EBiz POC role are commonly found in an Office of Sponsored Research or similar institutional business office. Other than small businesses, a PI would usually not have the EBiz POC role. 

NOTE: Visit the Adobe Software Compatibility page on Grants.gov to download the appropriate version of the software at: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/adobe- software-compatibility 

b. Mandatory Fields in Forms: In the forms, you will note fields marked with an asterisk and a different background color. These fields are mandatory fields that must be completed to successfully submit your application. 

c. Complete SF-424 Fields First: These forms are designed to fill in common required fields across other forms, such as the applicant's name, address, and SAM UEI. Once it is completed, the information will transfer to the other forms. 

3) Submit a Workspace: An application may be submitted through workspace by clicking the Sign and Submit button on the Manage Workspace page, under the Forms tab. Grants.gov recommends submitting your application package at least 24-48 hours prior to the close date to provide you with time to correct any potential technical issues that may disrupt the application submission. 

4) Track a Workspace: After successfully submitting a workspace package, a Grants.gov Tracking Number (GRANTXXXXXXXX) is automatically assigned to the package. The number will be listed on the Confirmation page that is generated after submission. 

For additional training resources, including video tutorials, refer to: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-training 

Applicant Support: Grants.gov provides applicants 24/7 support via the toll-free number 1-800-518-4726 and email at support@Grants.gov. For questions related to the specific opportunity, contact the number listed in the application package of the application you are applying for funding. 

If you are experiencing difficulties with your submission, it is best to call the Grants.gov Support Center and get a ticket number. The Support Center ticket number will assist SC with tracking your issue and understanding background information on the issue. 

#### Timely Receipt Requirements and Proof of Timely Submission

Proof of timely submission is automatically recorded by Grants.gov. An electronic date/time stamp is generated within the system when the application is successfully received by Grants.gov. The applicant AOR will receive an acknowledgement of receipt and a tracking number (GRANTXXXXXXXX) from Grants.gov with the successful transmission of their application. Applicant AORs will also receive the official date/time stamp and Grants.gov Tracking number in an email serving as proof of their timely submission. 

When SC successfully retrieves the application from Grants.gov, and acknowledges the download of submissions, Grants.gov will provide an electronic acknowledgment of receipt of the application to the email address of the applicant with the AOR role. Again, proof of timely 

submission shall be the official date and time that Grants.gov receives your application. Applications received by Grants.gov after the established due date for the program will be considered late and may not be considered for funding by SC. 

Applicants using unreliable internet connections should be aware that the process of completing the Workspace can take some time. Therefore, applicants should allow enough time to prepare and submit the application before the package closing date. 

Grants.gov will provide either an error or a successfully received submission message in the form of an email sent to the applicant with the AOR role attempting to submit the application. 

If you do not promptly receive an email from Grants.gov with an agency tracking number, indicating receipt of the application by SC, please contact the Grants.gov Helpdesk at 1- 800-518-4726 (toll-free) or support@Grants.gov immediately. SC will have no records of your attempted submission without the second email from Grants.gov. 

### 8. How to Prepare an Application

#### Application Preparation

You must submit the application through Grants.gov at https://www.Grants.gov/, using either the online webforms or downloaded forms. (Additional instructions are provided above.) 

You are required to use the compatible version of Adobe Reader software to complete a Grants.gov Adobe application package. To ensure you have the Grants.gov compatible version of Adobe Reader, visit the software compatibility page at https://www.Grants.gov/web/grants/applicants/adobe-software-compatibility.html. 

You must complete the mandatory forms and any applicable optional forms (e.g., Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (SF-LLL)) in accordance with the instructions on the forms and the additional instructions below. 

Files that are attached to the forms must be PDF files unless otherwise specified in this RFA. Attached PDF files must be plain files consisting of text, numbers, and images without editable fields, signatures, passwords, redactions, or other advanced features available in some PDF-compatible software. Do not use PDF portfolios or binders. 

Please note the following restrictions that apply to the names of all files attached to your application: • Please limit file names to 50 or fewer characters • Do not attach any documents with the same name. All attachments must have a unique name. • Please use only the following characters when naming your attachments: A-Z, a-z, 0-9, underscore, hyphen, space, period, parenthesis, curly braces, square brackets, ampersand, tilde, exclamation point, comma, semi colon, apostrophe, at sign, number sign, dollar 

sign, percent sign, plus sign, and equal sign. Attachments that do not follow this rule may cause the entire application to be rejected or cause issues during processing. 

#### Renewal Applications

For renewal applications only, the PI is required to submit a Renewal Proposal Products section through the PAMS website at https://pamspublic.science.energy.gov. The PI must enter into PAMS each product created during the course of the previous project period. Types of products include publications, intellectual property, technologies or techniques, and other products such as databases or software. As soon as the renewal application is assigned to a DOE Program Manager, the PI will receive an automated email from PAMS (<PAMS.Autoreply@science.doe.gov>) instructing him or her to navigate to the PAMS Task tab to complete and submit the Renewal Proposal Products. The submitted product list will be sent for merit review as part of the application. The application will not be considered complete and cannot be sent for review until the product list has been submitted. 

#### Resubmission of Applications

Applications submitted under this RFA may be withdrawn from consideration by using the PAMS website at https://pamspublic.science.energy.gov. Applications may be withdrawn at any time between when the applicant submits the application and when DOE makes the application available to merit reviewers. Such withdrawals take effect immediately and cannot be reversed. Please exercise due caution. After the application is made available to merit reviewers, the applicant may contact the DOE program office identified in this RFA to request that it be withdrawn. 

After an application is withdrawn, it may be resubmitted, if this RFA is still open for the submission of applications. Such resubmissions will only count as one submission if this RFA restricts the number of applications from an applicant. 

Note that there may be a delay between the application’s submission in Grants.gov and when it is available to be withdrawn in PAMS. SC will usually consider the last submission, according to its Grants.gov timestamp, to be the intended version. Please consult with your program manager to resolve any confusion about which version of an application should be considered. 

#### Improper Contents of Applications

Applications submitted under this RFA will be stored in controlled-access systems, but they may be made publicly available if an award is made. As such, it is critical that applicants follow these guidelines: • Do not include information that a non-Federal entity may not openly distribute, whether classified, export control, or unclassified controlled nuclear information. Non-Federal entities are not subject to any restrictions on distributing controlled unclassified information (CUI). 

• Do not include sensitive and protected personally identifiable information, including social security numbers, birthdates, citizenship, marital status, or home addresses. Pay particular attention to the content of biographical sketches and curriculum vitae. • Do not include letters of support from Federal officials. • Do not include letters of support on Federal letterhead. Letters that are not letters of support (such as letters confirming access to sites, facilities, equipment, or data; or letters from cognizant Contracting Officers) may be on Federal letterhead. • Clearly mark all proprietary or trade-secret information. 

#### Change of Recipient Institution

If a recipient chooses to relinquish an award made under this RFA to permit the transfer of the award to a new institution, the new institution must apply under the then-available SC “annual” or “open” RFA. 

### 9. How to Prepare a Biographical Sketch

As part of the application, each covered individual at the applicant and subrecipient level must submit a biographical sketch (“Biosketch”). Use SciENcv (Science Experts Network Curriculum Vitae) to produce a DOE/NNSA compliant PDF version of the Biosketch. Note that there is no page limitation for the Biosketch, though some fields in SciENcv have character limitations for consistency. 

Consistent with the instructions in NSPM-33 Implementation Guidance Pre- and Post- award Disclosures Relating to the Biographical Sketch and Current and Pending (Other) Support20 and the DOE/NNSA RFA-Specific Biosketch Instructions below, the Biosketch and CPS Common Form must together include a list of all sponsored activities, awards, and appointments, whether paid or unpaid; provided as a gift with terms or conditions or provided as a gift without terms or conditions; full-time, part-time, or voluntary; faculty, visiting, adjunct, or honorary; cash or in-kind; foreign or domestic; governmental or private-sector; directly supporting the individual’s research or indirectly supporting the individual by supporting students, research staff, space, equipment, or other research expenses. All connections with malign foreign talent recruitment programs must be identified. 

Please note the following: • With the exception of “covered individual”, which is defined in Section IX, all other definitions of terms used in the Biosketch are available at: NSPM-33 Definitions. • If there is any conflict between NSPM-33 Implementation Guidance Pre- and Post-award Disclosures Relating to the Biographical Sketch and Current and Pending (Other) Support and the DOE/NNSA RFA-Specific Biosketch Instructions below, follow the DOE/NNSA RFA-Specific Biosketch Instructions. 

DOE/NNSA RFA-Specific Biosketch Instructions 

20 This table supersedes in its entirety, Table 2a and Paragraph 7 of the Disclosure Requirements and Standardization Section of the NSPM-33 Implementation Guidance. 

Persistent Identifier (PID) of the Covered Individual The PID field is required for all applications sent to SC. Appointments and Positions Reporting Timeframe Identify all domestic and foreign professional appointments and positions outside of the primary organization for a period up to three years from the date the applicant submits the application. Products: Limitation on number provided List up to ten products most closely related to the proposed project. For each publication, identify the names of all authors (in the same sequence in which they appear in the publication), the article title, book or journal title, volume number, page numbers, year of publication, and website address if available electronically. Patents, copyrights and software systems developed may be provided in addition to or substituted for publications. An abbreviated style such as the Physical Review Letters (PRL) convention for citations (list only the first author) may be used for publications with more than ten authors. 

Biographical sketches must be attached to the Research and Related Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) form in an application. 

Personally Identifiable Information: Do not include sensitive and protected personally identifiable information including social security numbers, birthdates, citizenship, marital status, or home addresses. Do not include information that a merit reviewer should not make use of. 

### 10. How to Prepare a List of Individuals Who Should Not Serve as Reviewers

To assist in identifying individuals who should not serve as merit reviews, provide the following information for each senior/key person who is planned to be or is identified in Section A of the R&R Budget for the applicant and any proposed subrecipients: • Advisees (graduate students or postdocs) of the senior/key person • Advisors of the senior/key person while a graduate student or a postdoc • Close associates of the senior/key person over the past 48 months • Co-authors of the senior/key person over the past 48 months • Co-editors of the senior/key person over the past 48 months • Co-investigators of the senior/key person over the past 48 months • Collaborators of the senior/key person over the past 48 months 

Do not identify any personnel at the applicant institution or any proposed subrecipient or team institution: Those personnel are prohibited from serving as merit reviewers. 

Large collaborations of ten or more researchers do not require that all collaborators be identified: rather, only list the researchers with whom the senior/key person collaborated. 

For all identified individuals, provide the following information: 

• The senior/key person to whom the individual was an advisee, advisor, close associate, co-author, co-editor, co-investigator, or collaborator, identified by first name and last name • The individual’s first (given) name • The individual’s last (family) name • The individual’s Open Researcher and Contributor ID (ORCiD), if known • The individual’s institutional affiliation spelling out acronyms (For joint appointments, separate each institution with a slash (“/”). Do not list departmental affiliations.) • The reason for listing the individual (advisee, advisor, close associate, co-author, co- editor, co-investigator, collaborator) • The year when the individual last was a close associate, co-author, co-editor, co- investigator, or collaborator 

You may also provide a list of all senior/key personnel who are planned to be or are identified in Section A of the R&R Budget for the applicant and any proposed subrecipients. 

The lists do not need to be sorted in any method. 

The lists must be submitted in tabular format, preferably as Microsoft Excel (.xls or .xlsx) files. 

For your convenience, a Collaborator Template is available at https://science.osti.gov/grants/Policy-and-Guidance/Agreement-Forms. The template may also be posted with this RFA in Grants.gov. If using the template: • Do not add tabs to the spreadsheet • Do not merge the existing tabs • Do not remove headers • Fill out the requested headers on both tabs with the same information • Ensure that given and family names are presented in the correct columns 

### 11. How to Prepare Current and Pending Support

Current and pending (other) support (“CPS Common Form”) is used to identify potential duplication, overcommitment, potential conflicts of interest or commitment, and all other sources of support. 

As part of the application, each covered individual at the prime applicant and subrecipient level must submit a CPS Common Form. Use SciENcv (Science Experts Network Curriculum Vitae) to produce a DOE/NNSA compliant PDF version of the CPS Comon Form. Note that there is no page limitation for the CPS Common Form, though some fields in SciENcv have character limitations for consistency. 

Consistent with the instructions in NSPM-33 Implementation Guidance Pre- and Post- award Disclosures Relating to the Biographical Sketch and Current and Pending (Other) 

Support21 and the DOE/NNSA RFA-Specific CPS Instructions below, the CPS Common Form and Biosketch Common Form must together include a list of all sponsored activities, awards, and appointments, whether paid or unpaid; provided as a gift with terms or conditions or provided as a gift without terms or conditions; full-time, part-time, or voluntary; faculty, visiting, adjunct, or honorary; cash or in-kind; foreign or domestic; governmental or private-sector; directly supporting the individual’s research or indirectly supporting the individual by supporting students, research staff, space, equipment, or other research expenses. All connections with malign foreign talent recruitment programs must be identified in current and pending support. 

Please note the following: • With the exception of “covered individual,” which is defined in Section IX, all other definitions of terms used in the CPS Common Form are available at: NSPM-33 Definitions. • If there is any conflict between NSPM-33 Implementation Guidance Pre- and Post-award Disclosures Relating to the Biographical Sketch and Current and Pending (Other) Support and the DOE/NNSA RFA-Specific CPS Instructions below, follow the DOE/NNSA RFA-Specific CPS Instructions. 

DOE/NNSA RFA-Specific CPS Instructions Persistent Identifier (PID) of the Covered Individual The PID field is required. 

Reporting Timeframe for Proposals, Projects, and In- Kind Contributions Disclose only current and pending support, as defined in the “Status of Support” field of the SciENcv Common Form. Types of Proposals and Active Projects to Disclose In addition to the guidance listed above, consulting activities must be disclosed under the proposals and active projects section of the form when any of the following scenarios apply: • The consulting activity will require the covered individual to perform research as part of the consulting activity; • The consulting activity does not involve performing research, but is related to the covered individual’s research portfolio and may have the ability to impact funding, alter time or effort commitments, or otherwise impact scientific integrity; or 

21 This table supersedes in its entirety, Table 2a and Paragraph 7 of the Disclosure Requirements and Standardization Section of the NSPM-33 Implementation Guidance. 

• The consulting entity has provided a contract that requires the covered individual to conceal or withhold confidential financial or other ties between the covered individual and the entity, irrespective of the duration of the engagement. Disclosure Instructions for In-Kind Travel Follow the disclosure instructions for travel in NSPM-33 Implementation Guidance Pre- and Post-award Disclosures Relating to the Biographical Sketch and Current and Pending (Other) Support. Current and Pending (Other) Support Addendum The Current and Pending (Other) Support Addendum is not required for this RFA. 

Throughout the life of the award, the recipient has an ongoing responsibility to submit: 1) current and pending support disclosure statements and resumes/biosketches for any new covered individuals, and 2) updated disclosures if there are changes to the current and pending support or resume/bisoketch previously submitted to DOE. 

Submission of current and pending support constitutes the individual’s certification that they have complied with the Research Security Training requirement. 

### 12. How to Prepare a Data Management and Sharing Plan

Data Management and Sharing Plans (DMSPs) must be provided for the proposed research following DOE and DOE sponsoring office guidelines. If needed, updates to the DMSP, through the course of the R&D, must be provided to DOE for review and approval. In general, a DMSP should address the following requirements: 

1. Validation and replication of results The DMSP should describe how scientific data generated in the course of the research project will be publicly shared and preserved in a timely and fair manner that enables validation and replication of results. If data will not be publicly shared and preserved (see "Data sharing limitations"), the DMSP should describe how results could be validated and replicated. 

2. Timely and fair access The DMSP should provide a plan for making all scientific data displayed in peer- reviewed scholarly publications resulting from the proposed research open, machine- readable, and digitally accessible to the public at the time of publication. This includes data that are displayed in charts, figures, images, etc. In addition, the underlying digital scientific data used to generate peer-reviewed scholarly publications should be made freely available and publicly accessible at the time of publication, in accordance with the principles stated above. The published article should indicate how this data can be accessed. The DMSP should also provide a timeline for sharing digital scientific data 

produced under the DOE funded R&D effort not associated with peer-reviewed scholarly publications. 

3. Data repository selection The DMSP should specify the use of digital repositories that align, to the extent practicable, with the National Science and Technology Council document entitled “Desirable Characteristics of Data Repositories for Federally Funded Research,” by the Subcommittee on Open Science of the National Science and Technology Council, May 2022.22 In general, DOE does not endorse or require sharing in any specific repository and encourages researchers to select the repository that is most appropriate for their data type and discipline, though individual sponsoring research offices may provide specific guidance or designate a specific repository. 

4. Data management and sharing resources The DMSP should describe the data management and sharing resources that may be available and used in the course of the proposed research. In particular, a DMSP that explicitly or implicitly commit data management and sharing resources at a facility beyond what is conventionally made available to approved users should be accompanied by written approval from that facility. In determining the resources available for data management and sharing at DOE scientific user facilities, researchers should consult the published description of data management resources and practices at that facility and reference it in the DMSP. 

5. Data sharing limitations The DMSP must address any limitations of scientific data sharing to facilitate the protection of confidentiality, privacy, business confidential information, and/or security; avoid negative impact on intellectual property rights, innovation, program and operational improvements, and U.S. competitiveness; consider maximizing appropriate sharing through risk-mitigated limited access; preserve the balance between the relative value of long-term preservation and access and the associated cost and administrative burden; and otherwise be consistent with all applicable laws, regulations, and DOE orders and policies. Depending on the DOE funding agreement, a contractor or financial award recipient may have the right to assert copyright to or protect from public release for certain scientific data products. When contractors or award recipients assert copyright of scientific data, the DMSP should address licensing requirements and any limitations for sharing the copyrighted data. When contractors or award recipients assert data protection, the scientific data will not be shared with the public during the data protection period. 

To improve the discoverability of and attribution for datasets created and used in the course of research, DOE encourages the citation of publicly available datasets within the reference section of publications, including using the persistent identifiers associated with the dataset, such as a Digital Object Identifier (DOI). 

22 NSTC Subcommittee on Open Science. Desirable Characteristics of Data Repositories for Federally Funded Research. (2022) DOI: https://doi.org/10.5479/10088/113528 

In addition, scientific data made publicly available through the implementation of a DMSP are required to be reported under any applicable reporting requirements to DOE’s Office of Scientific and Technical Information (OSTI). A DOI is a type of persistent identifier that may be assigned to a dataset prior to reporting to OSTI, e.g., by the repository hosting the data or by a publisher. When there is a DOI assigned to a dataset, it must be provided within the metadata record submitted to OSTI. In cases where a data record does not already have an associated DOI, OSTI will assign a DOI for the data record. 

DMSPs will be reviewed as part of the overall SC research application merit review process. Applicants are encouraged to consult the SC website for further information and suggestions for how to structure a DMSP: https://science.osti.gov/funding-opportunities/digital- data-management. 

### 13. How to Prepare a Research and Related Budget and Justification

The following advice will improve the accuracy of your budget request: • Funds requested for personnel (senior, key, and other) must be justified as the product of their effort on the project and their institutional base salary. • Funds requested for fringe benefits must be calculated as the product of the requested salary and, if present, the negotiated fringe benefit rate contained in an institution’s negotiated indirect cost rate agreement. • Funds requested for indirect costs must be calculated using the correct indirect cost base and the negotiated indirect cost rate. • If a field is required (indicated with either an asterisk or a differently colored background) and no funds are being requested, enter a zero “0.” • You are encouraged to include the rate agreement used in preparing a budget as a part of the budget justification. • Do not prepare a budget justification using the expired DOE form F4260.1. 

If you are proposing indirect costs and do not already have an Indirect Cost Rate Agreement with your Cognizant Federal Agency or documentation of rates accepted for estimating purposes by DOE or another Federal agency, it is recommended that you begin preparing an Indirect Cost Rate Proposal to be submitted, upon request, to the DOE contract specialist/grants management specialist who will evaluate your application if you are selected for award. 

For your convenience in preparing an Indirect Cost Rate proposal, a link to applicant resources, including indirect rate model templates, has been provided below: https://science.osti.gov/sbir/applicant-resources/grant-application/. 

Institutions of higher education must either include their negotiated Indirect Cost Rate Agreement or a Uniform Resource Locator (URL, commonly referred to as a web link) where their agreement can be found in their budget justifications. 

#### Budget Fields

Section A Senior/Key Person For each Senior/Key Person, enter the requested information. List personnel, base salary, the number of months that person will be allocated to the project, requested salary, fringe benefits, and the total funds requested for each person. The requested salary must be the product of the base salary and the effort. Include a written narrative in the budget justification that justifies the need for requested personnel. Within the justification, explain the fringe benefit rate used if it is not the standard faculty rate. Section B Other Personnel List personnel, the number of months that person will be allocated to the project, requested salary fringe benefits, and the total funds requested for each person. Include a written narrative in the budget justification that fully justifies the need for requested personnel. Within the justification, provide the number of positions being filled in each category of other personnel. Section C Equipment For the purpose of this budget, equipment is designated as an item of property that has an acquisition cost of $10,000 or more and an expected service life of more than one year, unless a different threshold is specified in a negotiated Facilities and Administrative Cost Rate. (Note that this designation applies for proposal budgeting only and differs from the DOE definition of capital equipment.) List each item of equipment separately and justify each in the budget justification section. Do not aggregate items of equipment. Allowable items ordinarily will be limited to research equipment and apparatus not already available for the conduct of the work. General-purpose office equipment is not eligible for support unless primarily or exclusively used in the actual conduct of scientific research. Section D Travel For purposes of this section only, travel to Canada or to Mexico is considered domestic travel. In the budget justification, list each trip’s destination, dates, estimated costs including transportation and subsistence, number of staff traveling, the purpose of the travel, and how it relates to the project. Indicate the basis for the cost estimate (quotes from vendors or suppliers, past experience of similar items, or some other basis). To qualify for support, attendance at meetings or conferences must enhance the investigator’s capability to perform the research, plan extensions of it, or disseminate its results. Domestic travel is to be justified separately from foreign travel. Within the budget justification, detail the number of personnel planning to travel and the estimated per-traveler cost for each trip. Section E Participant/Trainee Support Costs If applicable, submit training support costs. Educational projects that intend to support trainees (precollege, college, graduate and postgraduate) must list each trainee cost that includes stipend levels and amounts, cost of tuition for each trainee, cost of any travel (provide the same information as needed under the regular travel category), and costs for any related training expenses. Participant costs are those 

costs associated with conferences, workshops, symposia or institutes and breakout items should indicate the number of participants, cost for each participant, purpose of the conference, dates and places of meetings and any related administrative expenses. Indicate the basis for the cost estimate (quotes from vendors or suppliers, past experience of similar items, or some other basis). Section F Other Direct Costs • Materials and Supplies: Enter total funds requested for materials and supplies in the appropriate fields. In the budget justification, indicate general categories such as glassware, and chemicals, including an amount for each category (items not identified under “Equipment”). Categories less than $1,000 are not required to be itemized. Indicate the basis for the cost estimate (quotes from vendors or suppliers, past experience of similar items, or some other basis). • Publication Costs: Enter the total publication funds requested. The proposal budget may request funds for the costs of documenting, preparing, publishing or otherwise making available to others the findings and products of the work conducted under the award. In the budget justification, include supporting information. Indicate the basis for the cost estimate (quotes from vendors or suppliers, past experience of similar items, or some other basis). • Consultant Services: Enter total funds requested for all consultant services. In the budget justification, identify each consultant, the services he/she will perform, total number of days, travel costs, and total estimated costs. Indicate the basis for the cost estimate (quotes from vendors or suppliers, past experience of similar items, or some other basis). • Automatic Data Processing (ADP)/Computer Services: Enter total funds requested for ADP/Computer Services. Cloud computing costs must be included under this item. The cost of computer services, including computer-based retrieval of scientific, technical and education information may be requested. In the budget justification, include the established computer service rates at the proposing organization if applicable. Indicate the basis for the cost estimate (quotes from vendors or suppliers, past experience of similar items, or some other basis). • Subawards/Consortium/Contractual Costs: Enter total costs for all subawards/consortium organizations and other contractual costs proposed for the project. In the budget justification, justify the details. • Equipment or Facility Rental/User Fees: Enter total funds requested for Equipment or Facility Rental/User Fees. In the budget justification, identify each rental/user fee and justify. Indicate the basis for the cost estimate (quotes from vendors or suppliers, past experience of similar items, or some other basis). 

• Alterations and Renovations: Enter total funds requested for Alterations and Renovations. In the budget justification, itemize by category and justify the costs of alterations and renovations, including repairs, painting, removal or installation of partitions, shielding, or air conditioning. Where applicable, provide the square footage and costs. • Other: Add text to describe any other Direct Costs not requested above. Enter costs associated with “Other” item(s). Use the budget justification to further itemize and justify. Section G Direct Costs This represents Total Direct Costs (Sections A through F). Section H Other Indirect Costs Enter the Indirect Cost information, including the rates and bases being used, for each field. Only four general categories of indirect costs are allowed/requested on this form, so please consolidate if needed. Include the cognizant Federal agency and contact information if using a negotiated rate agreement. Within the budget justification, explain the use of multiple rates, if multiple rates are used. Section I Total Direct and Indirect Costs This is the total of Sections G and H. 

#### Guidance for Application Budgets and Costs

Allowable costs may include, but are not limited to, the following: • “Buying out” faculty time dedicated to teaching or administrative responsibilities, • Support for administrative personnel dedicated to the proposed activity, • Support for professional development, training, mentoring of students and junior researchers, • Travel to meet with collaborators at other institutions and relevant DOE/NNSA National Laboratories, including costs for internships at the national laboratories; or to attend one or more science team, user facility, scientific conference, workshop, or professional society meetings relevant to the proposed research; or for the conduct of off-site research, • Fringe benefits, which must be paid in accordance with an institution’s negotiated rates agreement, institutional policies, and the individual’s appointment, • Temporary dependent-care costs incurred during travel, • Membership costs in relevant professional societies, including both scientific societies and those dedicated to research administration, • Instrumentation required to conduct proposed research, • Equipment (items with a useful life of more than 12 months and a per-item acquisition cost of more than $10,000) required to conduct proposed research, • Purchase of equipment, modification of equipment, or provision of services necessary to enable work to be carried out by project personnel with a disability, • Stipends and benefits for students and post-doctoral researchers, recognizing their dual nature as both trainees and employees, 

• Participation in standards development relevant to the proposed research, including travel and membership costs, • Salary support to cover time to participate in outreach for recruitment, internships, training events, science team meetings, partnership development, or information gathering, and • Other direct costs, e.g., materials and supplies such as office supplies, desktop or laptop computer, and/or software licenses that are directly necessary to enable the proposed activities. 

### 14. How to Register in PAMS

After you submit your application through Grants.gov, the application will automatically transfer into the Portfolio Analysis and Management System (PAMS) for processing by the DOE SC. Many functions for award agreements can be done in PAMS, which is available at https://pamspublic.science.energy.gov. 

You will want to “register to” your application: a process of linking yourself to the application after it has been submitted through Grants.gov and processed by DOE. 

You must register in PAMS to submit a pre-application or a LOI. 

Notifications sent from the PAMS system will come from the PAMS email address <PAMS.Autoreply@science.doe.gov>. Please make sure your email server/software allows delivery of emails from the PAMS email address to yours. 

Registering to PAMS is a two-step process; once you create an individual account, you must associate yourself with (“register to”) your institution. Detailed steps are listed below. 

#### Create PAMS Account:

To register, click the “Create New PAMS Account” link on the website https://pamspublic.science.energy.gov/. • Click the “No, I have never had an account” link and then the “Create Account” button. • You will be prompted to enter your name and email address, create a username and password, and select a security question and answer. Once you have done this, click the “Save and Continue” button. • On the next page, enter the required information (at least one phone number and your mailing address) and any optional information you wish to provide (e.g., FAX number, website, mailstop code, additional email addresses or phone numbers, Division/Department). Click the “Create Account” button. • Read the user agreement and click the “Accept” button to indicate that you understand your responsibilities and agree to comply with the rules of behavior for PAMS. • PAMS will take you to the “Having Trouble Logging In?” page. (If you have been an SC merit reviewer or if you have previously submitted an application, you may already be 

linked to an institution in PAMS. If this happens, you will be taken to the PAMS home page.) 

#### Register to Your Institution:

• Click the link labeled “Option 2: I know my institution and I am here to register to the institution.” (Note: If you previously created a PAMS account but did not register to an institution at that time, you must click the Institutions tab and click the “Register to Institution” link.) • PAMS will take you to the “Register to Institution” page. • Type a word or phrase from your institution name in the field labeled, “Institution Name like,” choose the radio button next to the item that best describes your role in the system and click the “Search” button. A “like” search in PAMS returns results that contain the word or phrase you enter; you do not need to enter the exact name of the institution, but you should enter a word or phrase contained within the institution name. (If your institution has a frequently used acronym, such as ANL for Argonne National Laboratory or UCLA for the Regents of the University of California, Los Angeles, you may find it easiest to search for the acronym under “Institution Name like.” Many institutions with acronyms are listed in PAMS with their acronyms in parentheses after their names.) • Find your institution in the list that is returned by the search and click the “Actions” link in the Options column next to the institution name to obtain a dropdown list. Select “Add me to this institution” from the dropdown. PAMS will take you to the “Institutions – List” page. • If you do not see your institution in the initial search results, you can search again by clicking the “Cancel” button, clicking the Option 2 link, and repeating the search. • If, after searching, you think your institution is not currently in the database, click the “Cannot Find My Institution” button and enter the requested institution information into PAMS. Click the “Create Institution” button. PAMS will add the institution to the system, associate your profile with the new institution, and return you to the “Institutions – List” page when you are finished. 

For help with PAMS, click the “PAMS Help” link on the PAMS website, https://pamspublic.science.energy.gov/. You may also contact the PAMS Help Desk, which can be reached Monday through Friday, 9AM – 5:30 PM Eastern Time. Telephone: (855) 818-1846 (toll free) or (301) 903-9610, email: sc.pams-helpdesk@science.doe.gov. All submission and inquiries about this RFA should reference the RFA number printed on the cover page. 

### 15. How to View Applications in PAMS

Each Grants.gov application submitted to the DOE SC automatically transfers into PAMS and is subsequently assigned to a program manager. At the time of program manager assignment, the three people listed on the SF-424 (R&R) cover page will receive an email with the subject line, “Receipt of Proposal 0000xxxxxx by the DOE Office of Science.” These three people are the PI (Block 14), Authorized Representative (Block 19), and Point of Contact (Block 5). In PAMS notation, applications are known as proposals, the PI is known as the PI, the 

Authorized Representative is known as the Sponsored Research Officer/Business Officer/Administrative Officer (SRO/BO/AO), and the Point of Contact is known as the POC. 

There will be a period of time between the application’s receipt at Grants.gov and its assignment to a DOE SC program manager. Program managers are typically assigned two weeks after applications are due at Grants.gov: please refrain from attempting to view the proposal in PAMS until you receive an email providing the assignment of a program manager. 

Once the email is sent, the PI, SRO/BO/PO, and POC will each be able to view the submitted proposal in PAMS. Viewing the proposal is optional. 

Following are two sets of instructions for viewing the submitted proposal, one for individuals who already have PAMS accounts and one for those who do not. 

If you already have a PAMS account, follow these instructions: 1. Log in to PAMS at https://pamspublic.science.energy.gov/. 2. Click the “Proposals” tab and click “Access Previously Submitted Grants.gov Proposal.” 3. Enter the following information: • Proposal ID: Enter the ten-digit PAMS proposal ID, including the leading zeros (e.g., 00002xxxxx). Do not use the Grants.gov proposal number. Use the PAMS number previously sent to you in the email with subject line, “Receipt of Proposal …” • Email (as entered in Grants.gov application): Enter your email address as it appears on the SF424(R&R) Cover Page. • Choose Role: Select the radio button in front of the role corresponding to the SF-424 (R&R) cover page. If your name appears in block 19 of the SF-424 (R&R) cover page as the authorizing representative, select “SRO/BO/AO (Sponsored Research Officer/Business Officer/Administrative Officer).” If your name appears in block 14 of the SF424 R&R cover page as the PI, select “Principal Investigator (PI).” If your name appears in block 5 of the SF424 R&R as the point of contact, select “Other (POC).” 4. Click the “Save and Continue” button. You will be taken to your “My Proposals” page. The Grants.gov proposal will now appear in your list of proposals. Click the “Actions/Views” link in the options column next to this proposal to obtain a dropdown list. Select “Proposal” from the dropdown to see the proposal. Note that the steps above will work only for proposals submitted to the DOE SC since May 2012. 

If you do not already have a PAMS account, follow these instructions: 1. To register, click the “Create New PAMS Account” link on the website https://pamspublic.science.energy.gov/. 2. Click the “No, I have never had an account” link and then the “Create Account” button. 3. You will be prompted to enter your name and email address, create a username and password, and select a security question and answer. Once you have done this, click the “Save and Continue” button. 4. On the next page, enter the required information (at least one phone number and your mailing address) and any optional information you wish to provide (e.g., FAX number, 

website, mailstop code, additional email addresses or phone numbers, Division/Department). Click the “Create Account” button. 5. Read the user agreement and click the “Accept” button to indicate that you understand your responsibilities and agree to comply with the rules of behavior for PAMS. 6. You will be taken to the Register to Institution page. Select the link labeled, “Option 1: My institution has submitted a proposal in Grants.gov. I am here to register as an SRO, PI, or POC (Sponsored Research Officer, Principal Investigator, or Point of Contact).” 7. Enter the following information: • Proposal ID: Enter the ten-digit PAMS proposal ID, including the leading zeros (e.g., 00002xxxxx). Do not use the Grants.gov proposal number. Use the PAMS number previously sent to you in the email with subject line, “Receipt of Proposal …” • Email (as entered in Grants.gov proposal): Enter your email address as it appears on the SF424(R&R) Cover Page. • Choose Role: Select the radio button in front of the role corresponding to the SF-424 (R&R) cover page. If your name appears in block 19 of the SF-424 (R&R) cover page as the authorizing representative, select “SRO/BO/AO (Sponsored Research Officer/Business Officer/Administrative Officer).” If your name appears in block 14 of the SF424 R&R cover page as the PI, select “Principal Investigator (PI).” If your name appears in block 5 of the SF424 R&R as the point of contact, select “Other (POC).” 8. Click the “Save and Continue” button. You will be taken to your “My Proposals” page. The Grants.gov proposal will now appear in your list of proposals. Click the “Actions/Views” link in the options column next to this proposal to obtain a dropdown list. Select “Proposal” from the dropdown to see the proposal. 

If you were listed as the PI on a prior submission but you have not previously created an account, you may already be listed in PAMS. If this is the case, you will be taken to the PAMS home page after agreeing to the Rules of Behavior. If that happens, follow the instructions listed above under “If you already have a PAMS account…” to access your Grants.gov proposal. 

### 16. How to Register in Other Systems Before Submitting an Application

#### Systems to Register In

Applicants must register with FedConnect at www.FedConnect.net. The full, binding version of assistance agreements will be posted to FedConnect. To create an organization account, your organization’s SAM MPIN is required. For more information about the SAM MPIN or other registration requirements, review the FedConnect Ready, Set, Go! Guide at https://www.fedconnect.net/FedConnect/Marketing/Documents/FedConnect_Ready_Set_Go.pdf 

Recipients must register with the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act Subaward Reporting System at https://www.fsrs.gov. This registration must be completed before an award may be made: you are advised to register while preparing your application. 

#### Registering in Grants.gov

Applicants must register with Grants.gov, following the instructions at https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-registration and described above. 

#### Where to Submit an Application

You must submit the application through Grants.gov at www.Grants.gov, using either the online webforms or downloaded forms, or a system-to-system service 

Submit electronic applications through the “Apply for Grants” function at www.Grants.gov. If you have problems completing the registration process or submitting your application, call Grants.gov at 1-800-518-4726 or send an email to support@Grants.gov. 

Please ensure that you have read the applicable instructions, guides, help notices, frequently asked questions, and other forms of technical support on Grants.gov. 

#### DOE SC Portfolio Analysis and Management System (PAMS)

Applicants must register in the Portfolio Analysis and Management System (PAMS) to submit letters of intent and pre-applications, to view merit reviewer comments, or to take a number of post-award actions. 

## C. Administrative and National Policy Requirements

### 1. Availability of Funds

The Government’s obligation under this award is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for award purposes can be made. No legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise until funds are made available to the DOE Agreements Officer for this award and until the recipient receives notice of such availability, to be confirmed in writing by the DOE Agreements Officer. 

### 2. Buy America Preference for Infrastructure Projects

#### 1. Overview

Made law via the passage of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Pub. L. No. 117- 58, 135 Stat. 429 (2021)), the Build America, Buy America Act (“BABA”) mandates that all iron, steel, manufactured products, and construction materials used in Federally funded projects meets certain domestic assembly and domestic content requirements. Applicants are strongly encouraged to read this section carefully, as this requirement may impact project budget and/or timeline; it is crucial that applicants properly understand the requirements of BABA as they scope out their projects. 

As is detailed more thoroughly below, BABA applies to any project that is receiving Federal financial assistance where the prime recipient is a State, local, or tribal government, 

nonprofit organization, or institution of higher education. It does not apply to projects that have a for-profit organization serving as the prime recipient. 

#### 2. Definitions

There are several terms of art that are given specific definitions with respect to the application and execution of BABA. Full definitions of these terms can be found by following this hyperlink to the relevant section (2 C.F.R. § 184.3) of the Code of Federal Regulations. Any additional context not present in the Code of Federal Regulations definition for a given term is provided below. 

a. Buy America Preference (Sometimes also referred to as the Buy America Requirement or Domestic Content Procurement Preference). Note that, despite the use of the word “Preference,” this is very much a mandatory compliance requirement. The statute, implementing regulations, and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance characterize this requirement as the “Buy America Preference,” and so that terminology is reflected here to ensure consistency with the statute and existing guidance. b. Component c. Construction Materials d. Infrastructure Project e. Iron or steel products f. Manufactured Products g. Manufacturer h. Predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both i. Produced in the United States (Sometimes also referred to as the “Domestic Production requirement”) j. Section 70917(c) Materials (i.e., certain materials used in construction that are specifically excluded from being categorized as “construction materials;” as such, the Buy America Preference is not applied to these materials. 

Additionally, the following terms are not defined in 2 C.F.R. § 184.3 (2023), but are important for a proper understanding of BABA and its application: 

k. Project – means the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of public infrastructure in the United States. l. Infrastructure – Infrastructure includes, at a minimum: the structures, facilities, and equipment for roads, highways, and bridges; public transportation; dams, ports, harbors, and other maritime facilities; intercity passenger and freight railroads; freight and intermodal facilities; airports; water systems, including drinking water and wastewater systems; electrical transmission facilities and systems; utilities; broadband infrastructure; buildings and real property; and structures, facilities, and equipment that generate, transport, and distribute energy, including electric vehicle (EV) charging. m. Public infrastructure – The Buy America Preference does not apply to non-public (private) infrastructure. For purposes of compliance with BABA, infrastructure should be considered “public” if it is: 

(1) publicly owned (owned, operated, funded and managed, in whole or in part, by any unit or authority of a Federal, State, or Local government-including U.S. Territories and Indian Tribes); or (2) privately owned but utilized primarily for a public purpose. Infrastructure should be considered to be “utilized primarily for a public purpose,” and therefore “public,” if it is privately owned but operated on behalf of the public or is a place of public accommodation. 

#### 3. Buy America Preference

A. The Buy America Preference 

Absent an approved waiver, none of the funds provided under a federal award (i.e., whether paid for with federal share or recipient cost-share) may be used for a project for infrastructure unless all iron, steel, manufactured products, and/or construction materials are “produced in the United States.” 

In general, applicants should ask the following questions to determine BABA applicability to their award: 1. Is the recipient a State, local, or tribal government; nonprofit organization, or institution of higher education? (If the prime is a for-profit organization, BABA does not apply. Otherwise, move on to question 2); 2. Does the project include the construction, alteration, maintenance, and/or repair of infrastructure in the United States? (“Infrastructure” is defined in the BABA statute and regulations and is quite broad; although the definition provides several specific items that are considered infrastructure, it also includes broad categories such as “buildings and real property,” which casts a wide net. If the project does not include work on infrastructure, then BABA does not apply. Otherwise, move to question 3); 3. Is the infrastructure in question publicly owned or privately-owned but utilized primarily for a public purpose? (Anything owned by a public entity is publicly owned, by definition. “Privately owned but utilized primarily for a public purpose” generally means privately-owned infrastructure that is operated on behalf of the public, or that serves as a place of public accommodation. DOE has the final say on this determination, so applicants who do not think their infrastructure is “privately-owned but utilized primarily for a public purpose” should have justifications prepared supporting their determination). 

If the answer to the above questions is “yes,” then BABA applies to your project. 

If a determination is made that BABA will apply to a project, recipients must then ensure that all iron, steel, manufactured products, and construction materials used in the project are “produced in the United States.” Standards to satisfy this requirement differ based on the category a given material falls under: 

a. All iron and steel used in the project is produced in the United States—this means all manufacturing processes, from the initial melting stage through the application of coatings, occurred in the United States; 

b. All manufactured products used in the project are produced in the United States—this means the manufactured product was manufactured in the United States; and the cost of the components of the manufactured product that are mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States is greater than 55 percent of the total cost of all components of the manufactured product, unless another standard for determining the minimum amount of domestic content of the manufactured product has been established under applicable law or regulation. (Note: 2 C.F.R. § 184.5 provides specific guidance for determining the cost of components for manufactured products); and c. All construction materials are manufactured in the United States—this means that all manufacturing processes for the construction material occurred in the United States. (Note: 2 C.F.R. § 184.6 provides additional standards that must be satisfied for some specified construction materials in order for those materials to be considered “produced in the United States”). 

Recipients are responsible for administering their award in accordance with the terms and conditions, including the Buy America Preference. The recipient must ensure that the Buy America Preference flows down to all subawards and that the subawardees and subrecipients comply with the Buy America Preference. The Buy America Preference term and condition must be included all sub-awards, contracts, subcontracts, and purchase orders for work performed under the infrastructure project. 

B. Specific Application of the Preference 

The Domestic Production requirement only applies to the iron or steel products, manufactured products, and construction materials used for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of public infrastructure in the United States. Only items that are consumed in, incorporated into, or permanently affixed to the infrastructure in the project are required to meet the “produced in the United States” requirements. As such, this requirement does not apply to tools, equipment, and supplies - such as temporary scaffolding - brought into the construction site and removed at or before the completion of the infrastructure project. This is likewise applicable to equipment and furnishings, such as movable chairs, desks, and portable computer equipment, that are used at or within the finished infrastructure project but are not an integral part of the structure or permanently affixed to the infrastructure project. 

C. Section 70917(c) Materials 

The BABA Statute at Section 70917(c) provides a list of materials which are specifically excluded from categorization as “construction materials,” and therefore may be used without meeting the relevant “produced in the United States” standard. 

Generally referred to as “Section 70917(c) Materials,” these are: • cement and cementitious materials; • aggregates such as stone, sand, or gravel; or • aggregate binding agents or additives as provided in Section 70917(c) of BABA. 

Asphalt concrete pavement mixes are typically composed of asphalt cement (a binding agent) and aggregates such as stone, sand, and gravel. Accordingly, asphalt is also excluded from the definition of Construction materials. 

Section 70917(c) materials, on their own, are not manufactured products. Further, Section 70917(c) materials should not be considered manufactured products when they are used at or combined proximate to the work site—such as is the case with wet concrete or hot mix asphalt brought to the work site for incorporation. However, certain Section 70917(c) materials (such as stone, sand, and gravel) may be used to produce a manufactured product, such as is precast concrete. Precast concrete is made of components, is processed into a specific shape or form, and is in such state when brought to the work site. Furthermore, wet concrete should not be considered a manufactured product if not dried or set prior to reaching the work site. 

Further clarification is provided in 2 C.F.R. § 184 on the circumstances under which a determination is made that Section 70917(c) materials should be treated as components of a manufactured product. That determination is based on consideration of: (i) the revised definition of the “manufactured products” at 2 C.F.R. § 184.3; (ii) a new definition of “Section 70917(c) materials” at 2 C.F.R. § 184.3; (iii) new instructions at 2 C.F.R. § 184.4(e) on how and when to categorize articles, materials, and supplies; and (iv) new instructions at 2 C.F.R. § 184.4(f) on how to apply the Buy America preference by category. 

#### 4. Certification of Compliance

Recipients must request a certification from a product manufacturer that the iron, steel, manufactured product or construction material they are acquiring from the manufacturer were “produced in the United States” (i.e., that they meet the requisite standards outlined at the beginning of Section 3, above). DOE will not provide any sort of “certification template” for this purpose; recipients are responsible for ensuring that a certification contains enough information that it properly validates the BABA compliance of the item(s) listed within the certification. 

Although DOE does not require a specific format for the certification, the following elements must be present: • A listing of all products covered by the certification, including their category (e.g., iron, steel, manufactured product, or construction material); • A recitation of the relevant “produced in the United States” standard for any categories (iron, steel, manufactured product, or construction material) provided in the above list, to ensure the manufacturer properly understands the standards to be met; • A clear statement that the products listed meet the relevant “produced in the United States” standard(s); • A signature from an authorized representative of the manufacturer certifying the contents of the compliance statement; and • Any other information the recipient deems necessary for the certification to demonstrate compliance with the BABA requirements. 

Recipients must also maintain certifications or equivalent documentation for proof of compliance that those articles, materials, and supplies that are consumed in, incorporated into, affixed to, or otherwise used in the infrastructure project, not covered by a waiver or exemption, are produced in the United States. The certification or proof of compliance must be provided by the suppliers or manufacturers of the iron, steel, manufactured products and construction materials and flow up from all subawardees, contractors and vendors to the recipient. Recipients must keep these certifications with the award/project files and be able to produce them upon request from DOE, auditors or Office of Inspector General. 

#### 5. Waivers

When necessary, recipients may apply for, and DOE may grant, a waiver from the Buy America Preference. In general, DOE will not review or consider waiver requests from applicants. Waiver requests are subject to review by DOE and the Office of Management and Budget, as well as a public comment period of no less than 15 calendar days. 

Waivers must be based on one of the following justifications: 

a. Public Interest - Applying the Buy America Preference would be inconsistent with the public interest; b. Non-Availability - The types of iron, steel, manufactured products, or construction materials are not produced in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities or of a satisfactory quality; or c. Unreasonable Cost - The inclusion of iron, steel, manufactured products, or construction materials produced in the United States will increase the cost of the overall project by more than 25 percent. 

Additional information on the submission and processing of a waiver request will be provided to applicants whose applications are selected for award negotiations. Alternatively, applicants can find more information about the process on DOE’s Build America, Buy America home page. 

### 3. Conference Spending (February 2015)

The recipient shall not expend any funds on a conference not directly and programmatically related to the purpose for which the OT agreement was awarded that would defray the cost to the United States Government of a conference held by any Executive branch department, agency, board, commission, or office for which the cost to the United States Government would otherwise exceed $20,000, thereby circumventing the required notification by the head of any such Executive Branch department, agency, board, commission, or office to the Inspector General (or senior ethics official for any entity without an Inspector General), of the date, location, and number of employees attending such conference. 

### 4. Commitment of Public Funds

(a) A DOE financial assistance award is valid only if it is in writing and is signed, either in writing or electronically, by a DOE Contracting Officer. 

(b) Recipients are free to accept or reject the award. A request to draw down DOE funds constitutes the Recipient’s acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Award. 

### 5. Corporate Felony Conviction and Federal Tax Liability Representations (March 2014)

In submitting an application in response to this RFA the Applicant represents that: • It is not a corporation that has been convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months, • It is not a corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability. 

For purposes of these representations the following definitions apply: • A Corporation includes any entity that has filed articles of incorporation in any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, or the various territories of the United States [but not foreign corporations]. It includes both for-profit and non-profit organizations. 

### 6. Covered Individual Definition, Designation, and Responsibility

For the purposes of this RFA, a Covered Individual means an individual who (a) contributes in a substantive, meaningful way to the development or execution of the scope of work of a project proposed for funding by DOE, and (b) is designated as a covered individual by DOE. 

DOE designates as covered individuals any principal investigator (PI); project director (PD); co-principal investigator (Co-PI); co-project director (Co-PD); project manager; and any individual regardless of title that is functionally performing as a PI, PD, Co-PI, Co-PD, or project manager. Status as a consultant, graduate (master’s or PhD) student, or postdoctoral associate 

does not automatically disqualify a person from being designated as a “covered individual” if they meet the definition in (a) above. 

The prime applicant is responsible for assessing the applicability of (a) against each person listed on the application. Further, the prime applicant is responsible for identifying any such individual to DOE for designation as a covered individual, if not already designated by DOE as described above. 

Individuals committing no measurable effort or “as-needed” effort are not automatically exempt from being designated as a covered individual. The prime applicant’s listing of an individual in the “Senior/Key Person” section of an SF-424(R&R) budget serves as an acknowledgement that DOE designates that person as a covered individual. 

DOE may further designate covered individuals during award negotiations or the award period of performance. 

If selected, throughout the life of the award, the recipient has an ongoing responsibility to submit: 1) current and pending support disclosure statements and resumes/biosketches for any new covered individuals, and 2) updated disclosures if there are changes to the current and pending support or resume/biosketch previously submitted to DOE. 

### 7. Digital Persistent Identifier (PID)

Individuals that are required to submit Biographical Sketch and/or Current and Pending (Other) Support disclosures must provide a digital persistent identifier (PID) in such disclosures as part of the application. Included PIDs must meet the common/core standards specified in an ORCID iD). 

Include this information for each covered individual with the Current and Pending (Other) Support submission as described above and in Section IX. 

### 8. Environmental, Safety and Health (ES&H) Performance of Work at DOE Facilities

With respect to the performance of any portion of the work under this award which is performed at a DOE-owned or controlled site, the recipient agrees to comply with all state and Federal ES&H regulations, and with all other ES&H requirements of the operator of such site. 

Prior to the performance on any work at a DOE-owned or controlled site, the recipient shall contact the site facility manager for information on DOE and site-specific ES&H requirements. 

The recipient shall apply this provision to all subrecipients at any tier. 

### 9. Evaluation and Administration by Non-Federal Personnel

In conducting the merit review evaluation, the Government may seek the advice of qualified non-Federal personnel as reviewers. The Government may also use non-Federal personnel to conduct routine, nondiscretionary administrative activities. The applicant, by submitting its application, consents to the use of non-Federal reviewers/administrators. Non- Federal reviewers must sign a conflict-of-interest agreement and a certificate of confidentiality prior to reviewing an application. Non-Federal personnel conducting administrative activities must sign a non-disclosure agreement. 

### 10. Federal, State, and Local Requirements

With respect to the performance of any portion of the work under this award, the recipient agrees to comply with all applicable local, state, and Federal ES&H regulations. The recipient shall apply this provision to all subrecipients at any tier. 

### 11. Foreign Travel

If international travel is proposed for your project, please note that your organization must comply with the International Air Transportation Fair Competitive Practices Act of 1974, 49 U.S.C. § 40118 (2018), commonly referred to as the “Fly America Act,” and implementing regulations at 41 C.F.R. §§ 301-10.131 through 301-10.143. (2025) The law and regulations require air transport of people or property to, from, between, or within a country other than the United States, the cost of which is supported under this award, to be performed by or under a cost-sharing arrangement with a United States flag carrier, if service is available. 

### 12. Framework for Nucleic Acid Synthesis Screening Requirement

Entities conducting life sciences R&D activities, or technical assistance to support life sciences R&D activities awards issued after October 2024 with synthetic nucleic acids – including but not limited to Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA), whether single- or double- stranded, as well as whole organism genomes (e.g., viruses, bacteria), or the use of any benchtop equipment capable of synthesizing nucleic acids are required to obtain synthetic nucleic acids or devices capable of synthesizing them – from Providers or Manufacturers that attest to implementing 2024 OSTP Framework for Nucleic Acid Synthesis Screening. 

The attestation may be provided through: (1) a publicly posted statement (e.g., public website) or (2) directly to the Grants Officer and the prime recipient/subrecipient for subawards by the Provider or Manufacturer. The Provider or Manufacturer must ensure that the attestation is signed by an individual with authority to respond on behalf of the organization. 

Flowdown of requirements to subrecipients. The prime recipient shall incorporate the substance of this term in its terms and conditions, including this paragraph, in all subawards in support of the award that may involve the procurement of synthetic nucleic acids and benchtop nucleic acid synthesis equipment. 

### 13. Funding Restrictions

Funding for all awards and future budget periods are contingent upon the availability of funds appropriated by Congress for the purpose of this program and the availability of future- year budget authority. 

Cost Principles: Costs must be allowable, allocable and reasonable in accordance with the applicable Federal cost principles referenced in 2 C.F.R. § 200 as modified by 2 C.F.R. § 910 (DOE Financial Assistance Regulation). 

Pre-award Costs: Recipients may charge to an award resulting from this RFA pre-award costs that were incurred within the 90-day calendar period immediately preceding the effective date of the award, if the costs are allowable in accordance with the applicable Federal cost principles referenced in 2 C.F.R. § 200 as modified by 2 C.F.R. § 910 (DOE Financial Assistance Regulation). Recipients must obtain the prior approval of the DOE Agreements Officer for any pre-award costs that are for periods greater than this 90-day calendar period. 

Pre-award costs are incurred at the applicant’s risk. DOE is under no obligation to reimburse such costs if for any reason the applicant does not receive an award or if the award is made for a lesser amount than the applicant expected. 

### 14. Government Right to Reject or Negotiate

DOE reserves the right, without qualification, to reject any or all applications received in response to this RFA and to select any application, in whole or in part, as a basis for negotiation and/or award. 

### 15. Implementation of Presidential Memorandum Simplifying the Funding of Energy Infrastructure and Critical Mineral and Material Projects

Pursuant to this Presidential Memorandum, DOE may share and use within the Government any application information provided by or on behalf of the applicant. Accordingly, in accordance with applicable law and notwithstanding any other provisions herein, by submitting an application or agreeing to a financial assistance arrangement with DOE under this RFA, the applicant is providing consent for any properly marked trade secret, confidential, proprietary, privileged or otherwise sensitive application information provided by or on behalf of the applicant to be disclosed to the Executive Office of the President and relevant Agencies offering loans, grants, equity, guarantees or other federal funding, for the purposes of the Presidential Memorandum on Simplifying the Funding of Energy Infrastructure and Critical Mineral and Material Project. 

### 16. Intergovernmental Review

This program is not subject to Executive Order 12372 Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. 

### 17. Logos and Wordmarks

DOE created a logo that recipients may use. The logos and best practices may be found at https://www.energy.gov/management/pf-2023-19-department-energy-awardee-usage- branding-and-logo-guide. Information about the DOE logo, seal, and wordmark may be found at https://www.energy.gov/management/doe-logo-seal-and-word-mark. 

### 18. Modifications

Notices of any modifications to this RFA will be posted on Grants.gov and the FedConnect portal. You can receive an email when a modification or a RFA message is posted by registering with FedConnect as an interested party for this RFA. It is recommended that you register as soon as possible after release of the RFA to ensure you receive timely notice of any amendments or other Notices of Funding Opportunity (NOFOs). More information is available at www.FedConnect.net. 

### 19. National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Compliance

DOE would determine if NEPA applies to the proposal in accordance with Section 2.1 of the DOE NEPA Implementing Procedures [DOE NEPA Implementing Procedures (June 2025) | Department of Energy], by evaluating the information provided in question 4.a. on the “Research and Related Other Project Information” form. If NEPA applies, DOE would then determine the required level of NEPA review following the procedures described in Section 2.2 of the DOE NEPA Implementing Procedures. If DOE could not apply a categorical exclusion (CX) to the proposed action, DOE would evaluate the significance of the proposed action’s reasonably foreseeable effects consistent with Section 3.2 of the DOE NEPA Implementing Procedures: 

1. If the proposed action is evaluated in a prior NEPA document by DOE or any other agency, DOE will consider relying on the existing document, or any pertinent part thereof, and supplementing that document as needed; 2. If the proposed action is not likely to have a reasonably foreseeable significant effect on the quality of the human environment, or if the significance of the effects of the proposed action is unknown, DOE will prepare an environmental assessment (EA), as described in chapter six of the DOE NEPA Implementing Procedures; or 3. If the proposed action is likely to have a reasonably foreseeable significant effect on the quality of the human environment, DOE will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS), as described in Chapter 7 of the DOE NEPA Implementing Procedures. 

This NEPA process would need to be completed prior to the applicant taking any action on the proposed project that could have adverse environmental effects or that could limit the choice of reasonable alternatives. The process would begin with a request from DOE for an environmental disclosure. If DOE is able to make a CX determination based on that disclosure, that would end the NEPA process. If DOE determines that an EA or EIS is necessary, it would need to be funded by the applicant. DOE has the expectation that the recipient will disclose the potential environmental effects, which would serve to initiate dialogue with DOE as necessary. 

The inability to satisfy the NEPA requirements after an award would result in cancellation of the award. 

### 20. Nondisclosure and Confidentiality Agreements Representations (June 2015)

By submitting an application in response to this RFA, the Applicant represents that: (1) It does not and will not require its employees or contractors to sign internal nondisclosure or confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting its employees or contactors from lawfully reporting waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information. (2) It does not and will not use any Federal funds to implement or enforce any nondisclosure and/or confidentiality policy, form, or agreement it uses unless it contains the following provisions: a. ‘‘These provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order relating to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, (3) the reporting to an Inspector General of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by controlling Executive orders and statutory provisions are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling.’’ b. The limitation above shall not contravene requirements applicable to Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or any other form issued by a Federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure of classified information. c. Notwithstanding provision listed in paragraph (a), a nondisclosure or confidentiality policy form or agreement that is to be executed by a person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or intelligence-related activity, other than an employee or officer of the United States Government, may contain provisions appropriate to the particular activity for which such document is to be used. Such form or agreement shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose any classified information received in the course of such activity unless specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. Such nondisclosure or confidentiality forms shall also make it clear that they do not bar disclosures to Congress, or to an authorized official of an executive agency or the Department of Justice, that are essential to reporting a substantial violation of law. 

### 21. Notice Regarding Eligible/Ineligible Activities

Eligible activities under this program include those which describe and promote the understanding of scientific and technical aspects of specific energy technologies, but not those which encourage or support political activities such as the collection and dissemination of information related to potential, planned or pending legislation. 

### 22. Portable Document Format (PDF) Generation

The Project Narrative in an application must be one single PDF file that contains the DOE Title Page, Project Narrative, all required appendices, and other attachments. This single PDF file may not be scanned from a printed document and must be attached in Field 8 on the Grants.gov form. This must be a plain PDF file consisting of text, numbers, and images. The Project Narrative will be read by SC staff using the full version of Adobe Acrobat: Please ensure that the narrative is readable in Acrobat. 

Do not submit files with editable fields, password-protection, encryption, redactions, comments, or any other advanced features in some PDF-compatible software. If a file cannot be opened and searched, an application may be declined. 

If combining multiple files into one Project Narrative, ensure that a PDF portfolio or binder is not created. 

If creating PDF files using any software other than Adobe Acrobat, please use a “Print to PDF” or equivalent process to ensure that all content is visible in the Project Narrative. 

Once a Project Narrative has been assembled, please submit the combined Project Narrative file through a “Print to PDF” or equivalent process to ensure that all content is visible in one PDF file that can be viewed in Adobe Acrobat. 

Review your submission to ensure that blank pages are not present. 

### 23. Prohibition on the Use of Funds for Activities Related to FASC-Prohibited Unmanned Aircraft Systems

Pursuant to the prohibition in section 1825 of the American Security Drone Act of 2023 (Public Law 118-31), on or after December 22, 2025, the following prohibition applies to the use of funds provided through this award: 

1) Definition – The terms “FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system” and “unmanned aircraft system” have the definitions provided in 48 C.F.R. § 40.201, or successor regulation. 2) Prohibition – No Federal funds awarded through this award may be used by a recipient or subrecipient: a) To procure a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system; or b) In connection with the operation of a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system. 

### 24. Prohibition on Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment

As set forth in 2 C.F.R. § 200.216, recipients and subrecipients are prohibited from obligating or expending project funds (federal funds and recipient cost share) to procure or obtain; extend or renew a contract to procure or obtain; or enter into a contract (or extend or renew a contract) to procure or obtain equipment, services, or systems that use covered telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, 

or as critical technology as part of any system. As described in John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, Pub. L. No. 115-232, § 889, 132 Stat. 1636, 1917 (2018), covered telecommunications equipment is telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei Technologies Company or ZTE Corporation (or any subsidiary or affiliate of such entities). 

See section 889 of Pub. L. No. 115-232, 2 C.F.R. § 200.216, and 2 C.F.R. § 200.471 for additional information. 

### 25. Prohibition on Discrimination and Harassment

All people conducting, supporting, or participating in scientific research under this award must be able to do so on the basis of their abilities and without any unnecessary barriers. Recipients of awards resulting from this RFA are prohibited from engaging in discrimination on any basis prohibited by law, including harassment (sexual or non-sexual) as contained in 10 C.F.R. §§ 1040, 1041, and 1042. 

Recipients may contact the DOE’s Office of Civil Rights for technical assistance in meeting their institutional requirements under these regulations, including assistance in addressing complaints of discrimination or harassment. DOE is committed to meeting its obligations under Title IV of the Civil Rights Act. The United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission also makes a number of resources available at https://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/publications/index.cfm to ensure that employees may perform their work without hindrance. Graduate students and post-doctoral researchers are understood to have a dual role as both trainees and employees, in accordance with 2 C.F.R. § 200.400 (f). 

### 26. Prohibition on Entities of Concern

#### Prohibition

No Entity of Concern as defined in section 10114 of Public Law 117-167 (42 U.S.C. § 18912), may receive any OT award, or loan of $10 million or more in Department of Energy funds, including funds made available by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024 (Public Law 118-42). 

In addition, for all awards involving Departmental activities authorized under Public Law 117-167, no Entity of Concern (including an individual that owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with an Entity of Concern) may receive DOE funds or perform work under any award, subject to certain penalties. See section 10114 of Public Law 117-167 (42 U.S.C. § 18912) and Division D, Title III, Section 310 of Division D of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2024 (Pub. L. No. 118-42) for additional information. 

By submitting an application to this RFA, the applicant is certifying that neither the applicant nor any of the project participants qualify as Entities of Concern. 

#### Definitions

Entity of Concern is defined in section 10114 of Public Law 117-167 (42 U.S.C. § 18912), also known as the CHIPS and Science Act, as any entity, including a national, that is— 

(A) identified under section 1237(b) of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (50 U.S.C. § 1701 note; Public Law 105–261); 

(B) identified under section 1260H of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. § 113 note; Public Law 116–283); 

(C) on the Entity List maintained by the Bureau of Industry and Security of the Department of Commerce and set forth in Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations; 

(D) included in the list required by section 9(b)(3) of the Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act of 2020 (Public Law 116–145; 134 Stat. 656); or 

(E) identified by the Secretary, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence and the applicable office that would provide, or is providing, covered support, as posing an unmanageable threat— 

(i) to the national security of the United States; or 

(ii) of theft or loss of United States intellectual property. 

### 27. Prohibition on Lobbying Activity

By accepting funds under this award, you agree that none of the funds obligated on the award shall be expended, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional action on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before Congress, other than to communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. § 1913. This restriction is in addition to those prescribed elsewhere in statute and regulation. 

### 28. Prohibition Related to Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Programs

#### Prohibition

Individuals participating in a Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program are prohibited from participating in this award. 

Should an award result from this RFA, the recipient must exercise ongoing due diligence to reasonably ensure that no such individuals participating on the DOE-funded project are participating in a Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program. Consequences 

for violations of this prohibition will be determined according to applicable law, regulations, and policy. 

Further, the recipient must notify DOE within five (5) business days upon learning that an individual on the project team is or is believed to be participating in a malign foreign talent recruitment program. DOE may modify and add requirements related to this prohibition to the extent required by law. 

#### Required Certifications

a. Each covered individual must certify that they are not party to a Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program. b. The applicant and the subrecipients must certify that the covered individuals in their respective employment have been made aware of the Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program prohibition and have complied with their certification responsibilities identified in a. 

#### Non-Discrimination

DOE will ensure that the Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program Prohibition is carried out in a manner that does not target, stigmatize, or discriminate against individuals on the basis of race, ethnicity, or national origin, consistent with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. § 2000(d) et seq.). 

#### Definitions

Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program. as defined in Pub. L. No. 117-167, Section 10638(4): A. any program, position, or activity that includes compensation in the form of cash, in-kind compensation, including research funding, promised future compensation, complimentary foreign travel, things of non de minimis value, honorific titles, career advancement opportunities, or other types of remuneration or consideration directly provided by a foreign country at any level (national, provincial, or local) or their designee, or an entity based in, funded by, or affiliated with a foreign country, whether or not directly sponsored by the foreign country, to the targeted individual, whether directly or indirectly stated in the arrangement, contract, or other documentation at issue, in exchange for the individual— i. engaging in the unauthorized transfer of intellectual property, materials, data products, or other nonpublic information owned by a United States entity or developed with a federal research and development award to the government of a foreign country or an entity based in, funded by, or affiliated with a foreign country regardless of whether that government or entity provided support for the development of the intellectual property, materials, or data products; ii. being required to recruit trainees or researchers to enroll in such program, position, or activity; 

iii. establishing a laboratory or company, accepting a faculty position, or undertaking any other employment or appointment in a foreign country or with an entity based in, funded by, or affiliated with a foreign country if such activities are in violation of the standard terms and conditions of a federal research and development award; iv. being unable to terminate the foreign talent recruitment program contract or agreement except in extraordinary circumstances; v. through funding or effort related to the foreign talent recruitment program, being limited in the capacity to carry out a research and development award or required to engage in work that would result in substantial overlap or duplication with a federal research and development award; vi. being required to apply for and successfully receive funding from the sponsoring foreign government's funding agencies with the sponsoring foreign organization as the recipient; vii. being required to omit acknowledgment of the recipient institution with which the individual is affiliated, or the federal research agency sponsoring the research and development award, contrary to the institutional policies or standard terms and conditions of the federal research and development award; viii. being required to not disclose to the federal research agency or employing institution the participation of such individual in such program, position, or activity; or ix. having a conflict of interest or conflict of commitment contrary to the standard terms and conditions of the federal research and development award; and 

B. a program that is sponsored by— i. a foreign country of concern or an entity based in a foreign country of concern, whether or not directly sponsored by the foreign country of concern; ii. an academic institution on the list developed under section 1286(c)(8) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. § 2358 note; 1 Public Law 115–232); or iii. a foreign talent recruitment program on the list developed under section 1286(c)(9) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. § 2358 note; 1 Public Law 115–232). 

Consistent with applicable law (42 U.S.C. § 19232), this provision does not prohibit, unless such activities are funded, organized, or managed by an academic institution or a foreign talent recruitment program on the lists developed under paragraphs (8) and (9) of section 1286(c) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. § 4001 note; Public Law 115–232): 

A. making scholarly presentations and publishing written materials regarding scientific information not otherwise controlled under current law; 

B. participation in international conferences or other international exchanges, research projects or programs that involve open and reciprocal exchange of scientific information, and which are aimed at advancing international scientific understanding and not otherwise controlled under current law; 

C. advising a foreign student enrolled at an institution of higher education or writing a recommendation for such a student, at such student's request; and 

D. other international activities determined appropriate by the federal research agency head or designee. 

### 29. Use and Disclosure of Application Information

Department of Energy (DOE) takes very seriously the confidentiality of all applicants and will treat properly marked sensitive information submitted in applications, as well as the identity of applicants, as confidential to the fullest extent permissible under Federal law. In order for DOE to protect confidential information, the applicant must also treat the information as confidential and properly mark it as described below. DOE will not be able to protect information that the applicant has released publicly or is in the public domain. For additional information on DOE’s Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) regulations, see 10 C.F.R. § 1004. 

Applicants should not include business sensitive information (e.g., commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential), trade secrets, proprietary, or otherwise confidential information in their application unless such information is necessary to convey an understanding of the proposed project or to comply with a requirement in the RFA. Applicants are advised to not include any critically sensitive proprietary detail. 

If an application includes trade secrets or information that is commercial or financial, or information that is confidential or privileged, it is furnished to the Government in confidence with the understanding that the information shall be used or disclosed only for evaluation purposes. Such information will be withheld from public disclosure to the extent permitted by law, including the FOIA. Without assuming any liability for inadvertent disclosure, DOE will seek to limit disclosure of such information to its employees and to outside reviewers when necessary for merit review of the application or as otherwise authorized by law. This restriction does not limit the Government’s right to use the information if it is obtained from another source. 

Applications and other submissions containing confidential, proprietary, or privileged information must be marked as described below. Failure to comply with these marking requirements may result in the disclosure of the unmarked information under the FOIA or otherwise. The U.S. Government is not liable for the disclosure or use of unmarked information and may use or disclose such information for any purpose. 

The cover sheet of the Application and other submission must be marked as follows and identify the specific pages containing trade secrets, confidential, proprietary, or privileged information: 

Notice of Restriction on Use and Disclosure of Information: Pages [list applicable pages] of this document may contain trade secrets or business- sensitive, proprietary, or otherwise confidential information that is exempt from public disclosure. Such information shall be used or disclosed only for evaluation purposes with the restriction that the information be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed, 

or in accordance with an agreement between the submitter and the government. The government may use or disclose any information that is not appropriately marked or otherwise restricted, regardless of source. [End of Notice] 

The header and footer of every page that contains confidential, proprietary, or privileged information must be marked as follows: “Contains Trade Secrets, Confidential, Proprietary, or Privileged Information Exempt from Public Disclosure.” In addition, each line or paragraph containing proprietary, privileged, or trade secret information must be clearly marked with double brackets or highlighting. 

Notwithstanding the above, for compliance with the PRESIDENTIAL MEMORANDUM on SIMPLIFYING THE FUNDING OF ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE AND CRITICAL MINERAL AND MATERIAL PROJECTS, the Department of Energy may share and use within the Government any application information provided by or on behalf of the applicant. Accordingly, in accordance with applicable law and notwithstanding any other provisions herein, by submitting an application or agreeing to an arrangement with the Department of Energy under this RFA, the applicant is providing consent for any properly marked trade secret or confidential, proprietary, privileged, or otherwise sensitive application information provided by or on behalf of the applicant to be disclosed to the Executive Office of the President and relevant agencies offering loans, grants, equity, guarantees, or other federal funding for the purposes of the Presidential Memorandum on Simplifying the Funding of Energy Infrastructure and Critical Mineral and Material Projects. 

#### Important Guidance for Company Submitters:

As per DOE’s FOIA regulations and Department of Justice FOIA guidance, if DOE receives a FOIA request the following general steps will be taken: 1. DOE will review the request to determine whether your company’s information is subject to the request. Only federal records are subject to FOIA requests. Depending on the circumstances, information submitted by an outside entity may be considered “federal records” for purposes of FOIA. 2. If your company information is determined to be a federal record and responsive to a FOIA request, DOE will review what was submitted in order to determine if DOE can make a determination whether the information is legally exempt. a. If DOE determines your information is fully exempt under an exemption and that it will not be released, DOE may not contact you. b. If DOE is unable to determine whether the information is exempt under an exemption or is planning on releasing some or all of your information, DOE will first contact you in order for you to have an opportunity to respond and provide additional justification as to why it may be exempt. DOE will do all that it can to work with company submitters to be in compliance with the law and maintain positive relations with company submitters. c. It is critical if DOE or DOE’s contractors who are processing your FOIA contact you that you respond in a timely manner. DOE is under strict deadlines when processing a FOIA request. 

### 30. Publications

The recipient is expected to publish scientific results in peer-reviewed journals or otherwise make publicly available the results of the work conducted under any award resulting from this RFA. Publications and other methods of public communication describing any work based on or developed under an award resulting from this RFA must contain an acknowledgment of SC support. The format for such acknowledgments is provided at https://science.osti.gov/funding-opportunities/acknowledgements/. The author’s copy of any peer-reviewed manuscript accepted for publication must be announced to DOE’s Office of Scientific and Technical Information (OSTI) and made publicly available in accordance with the instructions contained in the Reporting Requirements Checklist incorporated in all Assistance Agreements. Awards made under this RFA are subject to DOE’s Public Access Plan. Full-text versions of scientific publications must be made publicly accessible at no charge to readers. 

### 31. Registration Requirements

Prime recipients must keep their data in SAM current at www.SAM.gov. Subrecipients at all tiers must obtain UEI numbers and provide the UEI to the prime recipient before the subaward can be issued. 

### 32. Research Misconduct

Scientific discoveries can only take place when scientific research is conducted in a fair, transparent, and honestly reported manner. Any form of dishonesty—whether plagiarism, falsifying results, or misrepresenting conditions—makes it impossible to advance our understanding of the physical universe. 

Recipients are “responsible for maintaining the integrity of research of any kind under an award from DOE including the prevention, detection, and remediation of research misconduct, and the conduct of inquiries, investigations, and adjudication of allegations of research misconduct,” and conducting appropriate administrative processes in response to allegations of research misconduct in accordance with 2 C.F.R. § 910.132. Allegations of any misconduct under an award resulting from this RFA must be reported to the appropriate institutional officials in accordance with institutional policies against misconduct. Additional information on DOE research misconduct policies can be found at: https://science.osti.gov/grants/Policy-and- Guidance/Research-Misconduct. 

### 33. Research Security Training Requirement

Covered individuals listed on applications are required to certify that they have taken research security training consistent with section 10634 of the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022. In addition, an applicant who receives an award must maintain sufficient records (records must be retained for the time period noted in 2 C.F.R. § 200.334 and made available to DOE upon request) of its compliance with this requirement for covered individuals at the applicant/recipient organization and it must extend this requirement to any and all subrecipients. 

Include this information for each covered individual with the Current and Pending Support submission as described above. 

### 34. Rights in Data

For U.S. government rights in application information, please refer to the Use and Disclosure of Application Information section. The U.S. government rights to data produced under the award or used in the performance of the award varies according to following classifications. 

Limited Rights Data: Limited Rights Data is data (other than computer software) developed at private expense that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged. For limited rights data used in the performance of the award, the U.S. government may inspect such data for the purposes of verifying the limited rights data rights assertion or for evaluating work performance, but will not normally require delivery of such data. For awards requiring delivery of Limited Rights Data and to ensure the protection of such data, the Limited Rights Data must be properly marked as set forth in the award’s intellectual property terms and conditions. 

Unlimited Rights: Unlimited Rights Data is data first produced under the award or unmarked data delivered to the U.S. government as part of the award. Unlimited rights mean the right of the U.S. government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose whatsoever, and to have or permit others to do so. 

Patentable Information: In addition to any other protection allowed under the award, invention disclosures and other patentable information may be protectable from public disclosure for a reasonable time to allow for filing a patent application. 

Protected Data: Notwithstanding the unlimited rights that the U.S. government normally obtains in data first produced under the award, DOE may in certain circumstances pursuant to special statutory authority provide that certain categories of data first produced under awards resulting from this RFA may be marked as Protected Data. Protected Data is technical data or commercial or financial data first produced under the award which, if it had been obtained from and first produced by a non-federal party, would be privileged or confidential. Such data is protected from public disclosure for up to five years after the data was first produced. Should DOE grant the ability to mark data as Protected Data, DOE may in certain circumstances authorize protection of data for more than five years. To qualify as Protected Data, DOE must concur with the classification, and the data must be properly marked as set forth in the award’s intellectual property terms and conditions. The applicant may request Protected Data in their award terms, and DOE may, at its discretion and subject to applicable authorities, include applicable terms in the resulting award. 

The recipient, subrecipient(s), and contractor(s) may assert copyright in copyrightable works, such as software, first produced under the award without DOE approval. When copyright is asserted, the government retains a paid-up nonexclusive, irrevocable worldwide license to 

reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and to perform publicly and display publicly the copyrighted work. This license extends to contractors and others doing work on behalf of the government. 

### 35. Statement of Federal Stewardship

DOE will exercise normal federal stewardship in overseeing the project activities performed under DOE awards. Stewardship activities include but are not limited to conducting site visits; reviewing performance and financial reports; providing assistance and/or temporary intervention in unusual circumstances to correct deficiencies that develop during the project; assuring compliance with terms and conditions; and reviewing technical performance after project completion to ensure that the project objectives have been accomplished. 

### 36. Subaward and Executive Reporting

Additional administrative requirements necessary for DOE agreements to comply with the Federal Funding and Transparency Act of 2006 are contained in 2 C.F.R. § 170. (See: www.eCFR.gov ). Prime recipients must register with the new Federal Funding and Transparency Act Subaward Reporting System (FSRS) at https://www.fsrs.gov and report the required data on their first tier subrecipients. Prime recipients may be required to report the total compensation for their five most highly compensated executives as part of their registration profile in SAM.gov and for first-tier subrecipients’ five most highly compensated executives as in FSRS.gov. 

### 37. Title to Subject Inventions

DOE intends to release fast-track OT agreements using provisions similar to 37 C.F.R. § 401.14 and 35 U.S.C. § 200 et seq. allowing recipients to elect to retain title to their subject inventions. This RFA uses DOE’s OTA to negotiate intellectual property rights. 

### 38. Trafficking in Persons

Awards resulting from this RFA are subject to the requirements of 2 C.F.R. § 175 (https://www.ecfr.gov) which prohibit recipients, their employees, subrecipients, and their employees from severe forms of trafficking in persons; the procurement of a commercial sex act during the period of time that this award or any subaward is in effect; the use of forced labor in the performance of this award or any subaward; or acts that directly support or advance trafficking in persons. 

### 39. U.S. Competitiveness

The following U.S. Competitiveness is required under all award types, including OTAs. 

A primary objective of DOE’s multi-billion-dollar research, development and demonstration investments is to cultivate new research and development ecosystems, manufacturing capabilities, and supply chains for and by U.S. industry and labor. Therefore, in 

exchange for receiving taxpayer dollars to support an applicant’s project, the applicant must agree to a U.S. Competitiveness provision requiring any products embodying any subject invention or produced using any subject invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States unless the Recipient can show to the satisfaction of DOE that it is not commercially feasible. 

Please note that a subject invention is any invention conceived or first actually reduced in performance of work under an award. An invention is any invention or discovery which is or may be patentable. The recipient includes any awardee, recipient, sub-awardee, or sub-recipient. 

As noted in the U.S. Competitiveness Provision, if an entity cannot meet the requirements of the U.S. Competitiveness Provision, the entity may request a modification or waiver of the U.S. Competitiveness Provision. If granted, DOE will modify the award terms and conditions for the requesting entity accordingly. More information and guidance on the waiver and modification request process can be found in the DOE Financial Assistance Letter on this topic, available here at https://www.energy.gov/management/pf-2022-09-fal-2022-01-implementation- doe-determination-exceptional-circumstances-under. Additional information on DOE’s Commitment to Domestic Manufacturing for DOE-funded R&D is available at https://www.energy.gov/gc/us-manufacturing. 

### 40. Updating Your Portfolio Analysis and Management System (PAMS) Profile

All applicants are encouraged to update their profiles in the PAMS website at https://pamspublic.science.energy.gov regularly to ensure SC has your most up to date information. The PAMS profile allows individuals to provide responses to various fields, including selecting a “Do not wish to provide” option. Your individual information will not be shared with peer reviewers and the information in your PAMS profile is protected by the requirements established in the Federal Privacy Act of 1974. 

## D. Reference Material

### Glossary of Terms

Acquisition cost Acquisition cost means the cost of the asset including the cost to ready the asset for its intended use. Acquisition cost for equipment, for example, means the net invoice price of the equipment, including the cost of any modifications, attachments, accessories, or auxiliary apparatus necessary to make it usable for the purpose for which it is acquired. Acquisition costs for software includes those development costs capitalized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Ancillary charges, such as taxes, duty, protective in transit insurance, freight, and installation may be included in or excluded from the acquisition cost in accordance with the non-Federal entity’s regular accounting practices. Administrative requirements Administrative requirements mean the general business management practices that are common to the administration of all grants, such as financial accountability, reporting, equipment management, and retention of records. 

Advance payment Advance payment means a payment that a Federal awarding agency or pass- through entity makes by any appropriate payment mechanism, including a predetermined payment schedule, before the non-Federal entity disburses the funds for program purposes. Allocation Allocation means the process of assigning a cost, or a group of costs, to one or more cost objective(s), in reasonable proportion to the benefit provided or other equitable relationship. The process may entail assigning a cost(s) directly to a final cost objective or through one or more intermediate cost objectives. Allocability Allocability means the principle which requires that an expense or service charged must directly benefit and be necessary for the performance of the project; when multiple projects are benefited reasonable proportions must be able to be assigned. See 2 C.F.R. § 200.405. Allowable cost Allowable cost means a cost incurred by a recipient that is: (1) reasonable for the performance of the award; (2) allocable; (3) in conformance with any limitations or exclusions set forth in the Federal cost principles applicable to the organization incurring the cost or in the award documents as to the type or amount of cost; (4) consistent with regulations, policies, and procedures of the recipient that are applied uniformly to both federally supported and other activities of the organization; (5) accorded consistent treatment as a direct or indirect cost; (6) determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; and (7) not included as a cost in any other federally supported award (unless specifically authorized by statute). See 2 C.F.R. § 200.403. Application Application means a request for financial support of a project or activity submitted to DOE on specified forms and in accordance with DOE instructions. Also known as a proposal. Appropriation Act Appropriation act means the statute that provides the authority for Federal agencies to incur obligations to and make payments out of the U.S. treasury for specified purposes. Approved budget The approved budget for the Federal award summarizes the financial aspects of the project or program as approved during the Federal award process. It may include either the Federal and non-Federal share or only the Federal share, depending upon Federal awarding agency requirements. It must be related to performance for program evaluation purposes whenever appropriate. See 2 C.F.R. § 200.308(a). Assurance Assurance means a certification by an applicant, normally included with the application or State plan, indicating that the entity complies with, or that it will comply with, a particular requirement if awarded. Authorized organizational representative Authorized organizational representative means the individual, named by the applicant organization, who is authorized to act for the applicant and to assume the obligations imposed by the Federal laws, regulations, requirements, and conditions that apply to applications or grant awards. Award Award means the provision of funds by DOE, based on an approved application and budget or progress report, to an organizational entity or an individual to carry out a project or activity. Award documents Award documents means the entirety of the documents describing the legal relationship between DOE and an awardee or recipient. The award documents include an Assistance Agreement and other documents which may be incorporated by reference or as attachments to the Assistance Agreement. The award documents are the official, legally binding document, signed (or the electronic equivalent of signature) by a Agreements Officer that: notifies the recipient of the award of an award; contains or references all the terms and conditions of the grant and Federal funding limits and obligations; and, 

provides the documentary basis for recording the obligation of Federal funds in the DOE accounting system. Bayh-Dole Act Bayh-Dole Act means a law which encourages universities and researchers to develop their inventions into marketable products; formal citation is section 6 of the Patent and Trademark Amendment of 1980, Pub. L 96-517 as amended. Budget Budget means the financial plan for the project or program that the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity approves during the Federal award process or in subsequent amendments to the Federal award. It may include the Federal and non-Federal share or only the Federal share, as determined by the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity. Budget period Budget period means the intervals of time (usually 12 months each) into which a project period is divided for budgetary and funding purposes. Business officer Business officer means the financial official of the recipient who has primary fiscal responsibility for the award. Also known as authorized organizational representative. Capital assets Capital assets means tangible or intangible assets used in operations having a useful life of more than one year which are capitalized in accordance with GAAP. Capital assets include: (a) Land, buildings (facilities), equipment, and intellectual property (including software) whether acquired by purchase, construction, manufacture, lease- purchase, exchange, or through capital leases; and (b) Additions, improvements, modifications, replacements, rearrangements, reinstallations, renovations or alterations to capital assets that materially increase their value or useful life (not ordinary repairs and maintenance). Carryover Carryover means unobligated Federal funds remaining at the end of any budget period that may be carried forward to another budget period to cover allowable costs of that budget period (whether as an offset or additional authorization). Obligated, but unliquidated, funds are not considered carryover. Change in scope Change in scope means an activity whereby the objectives or specific aims identified in the approved application are significantly changed by the recipient after award. Agreements Officer prior approval is required for a change in scope to be allowable under an award. Closeout Closeout means the process by which a Federal awarding agency determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work under an award have been completed by the recipient and the Federal awarding agency. Competitive segment Competitive segment means the initial project period recommended for support or each extension of a project period resulting from a renewal award. Conference (domestic or international) Conference (domestic or international) means a symposium, seminar, workshop, or any other organized and formal meeting, whether conducted face-to-face or via the Internet, where individuals assemble (or meet virtually) to exchange information and views or explore or clarify a defined subject, problem, or area of knowledge, a published report results from such meeting. Consortium or sub-award agreement Consortium or sub-award agreement means a formalized agreement whereby a research project is carried out by the recipient and one or more other organizations that are separate legal entities. Under the agreement, the recipient must perform a substantive role in the conduct of the planned research and not merely serve as a conduit of funds to another party or parties. These agreements typically involve a specific level of effort from the consortium organization’s PD/PI and a categorical breakdown of costs, such as personnel, supplies, and other allowable expenses, including F&A costs. The relationship between the recipient and the collaborating organizations is considered a sub-award relationship. Consultant Consultant means an individual who provides professional advice or services for a fee, but not as an employee of the engaging party. To prevent apparent or 

actual conflicts of interest, recipients and consultants must establish written guidelines indicating the conditions of payment of consulting fees. Consultants also include firms that provide professional advice or services. See 2 C.F.R. § 200.459. Continuation application/award Continuation application/award means a financial assistance request (in the form of an application or progress report) or resulting award for a subsequent budget period within a previously approved project period for which a recipient does not have to compete with other applicants. Contract Contract means a legal instrument by which a non-Federal entity purchases property or services needed to carry out the project or program under a Federal award. The term as used in this part does not include a legal instrument, even if the non-Federal entity considers it a contract, when the substance of the transaction meets the definition of a Federal award or sub-award (see 2 C.F.R. § 200.1 Subaward). Contractor Contractor means an entity that receives a contract as defined in 2 C.F.R. § 200.1 Contract. Contracting (or Grants) Officer Contracting (or Grants) Officer means a DOE official responsible for the business management aspects of grants and cooperative agreements, including review, negotiation, award, and administration, and for the interpretation of grants administration policies and provisions. COs and GOs are delegated the authority to obligate DOE to the expenditure of funds and permit changes to approved projects on behalf of DOE. Contracting (or Grants Management) specialist Contracting (or Grants Management) specialist means a DOE staff member who works with a Contracting or Grants Officer and is assigned the day-to-day management of a portfolio of grants and/or cooperative agreements. These activities include, but are not limited to, evaluating applications for administrative content and compliance with statutes, regulations, and guidelines; negotiating grants; providing consultation and technical assistance to recipients; and administering grants after award. Cooperative agreement Cooperative agreement means a type of financial assistance used when there will be substantial Federal scientific or programmatic involvement. Substantial involvement means that, after award, scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. Cost principles Cost principles means the government-wide principles, 2 C.F.R. § 200 Subpart E (or, in the case of commercial organizations, the Federal Acquisition Regulation [48 C.F.R. § 31], or, in the case of hospitals, see Appendix IX to Part 200—Hospital Cost Principles, Appendix E, “Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals”), on allowability and unallowability of costs under federally sponsored agreements. Cost sharing or matching Cost sharing or matching means the portion of project costs not paid by Federal funds (unless otherwise authorized by Federal statute). See also 2 C.F.R. § 200.306 Cost sharing or matching. Deadline Deadline means the published date and/or time that a application is to be submitted to the funding agency. Debarment and suspension Debarment and suspension mean the actions taken by a debarring official in accordance with OMB guidance at 2 C.F.R. § 180, “Non-procurement Debarment and Suspension,” to exclude a person or organization from participating in grants and other non-procurement awards government-wide. If debarred or suspended, the person or organization may not receive financial assistance (under a grant, cooperative agreement, or sub-award, or contract under a grant) for a specified period of time. Debarments and suspensions carried out pursuant to 2 C.F.R. § 376 are distinct from post-award suspension action by an awarding agency. See 2 C.F.R. § 901 for DOE implementation. 

Direct costs Direct costs mean costs that can be identified specifically with a particular sponsored project, an instructional activity, or any other institutional activity, or that can be directly assigned to such activities relatively easily with a high degree of accuracy. See 2 C.F.R. § 200.413. Disallowed costs Disallowed costs mean those charges to a Federal award that the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity determines to be unallowable, in accordance with the applicable Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award. Domestic organization Domestic organization means a public (including a State or other governmental agency) or private non-profit or for-profit organization that is located in the United States or its territories, is subject to U.S. laws, and assumes legal and financial accountability for awarded funds and for the performance of the grant-supported activities. Effort Effort means the amount of time, usually expressed as a percentage of the total, which a faculty member or other employee spends on a sponsored project. No one is allowed to spend more than 100 percent total commitment on all academic activities, including grant-sponsored research, university- sponsored research, teaching, administration, advising and other contracted duties. Effort is indicated on the budget in units of person-months. Equipment Equipment means tangible personal property (including information technology systems) having a useful life of more than one year and a per-unit acquisition cost which equals or exceeds the lesser of the capitalization level established by the non-Federal entity for financial statement purposes, or $10,000. See also 2 C.F.R. § 200.1 Capital assets, Computing devices, General purpose equipment, Information technology systems, Special purpose equipment, and Supplies. Expanded authorities Expanded authorities means authorization to recipients under certain research grant mechanisms which waives the requirement for prior agency approval for specified actions related to awards. Example: 90-day pre-award spending authority, no cost extensions for up to one additional year, and automatic carryover of unobligated funds from one budget period to the next. The expanded authorities are now contained in Uniform Guidance of 2 C.F.R. § 200 as being applicable to all research awards. Expiration date Expiration date means generally, the date signifying the end of the current project period, after which the recipient is not authorized to obligate award funds. Facilities and administrative costs Facilities and administrative costs mean costs that are incurred by a recipient for common or joint objectives and that, therefore, cannot be identified specifically with a particular project or program. These costs also are known as indirect costs. Federal financial report Federal financial report means submitted on Standard Form (SF) 425, to indicate the status of awarded funds for the period covered. Frequency of reporting is specified in the Reporting Checklist provided as part of the award documents. Financial assistance Financial assistance means transfer by DOE of money or property to an eligible entity to support or stimulate a public purpose authorized by statute. Financial status report Financial status report means see Federal Financial Report. Foreign travel Foreign travel is meant to include travel outside of North America (Canada, Mexico, and the United States) and U.S. territories and possessions (Guam, American Samoa, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands. A trip is considered foreign travel for all legs of the itinerary if the traveler does not return to his or her post prior to departure for a foreign destination. Costs for foreign travel may be restricted by the language of a Funding Opportunity Announcement. 

Grant agreement Grant agreement means a legal instrument of financial assistance between a Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity and a non-Federal entity that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. §§ 6302, 6304: (a) Is used to enter into a relationship the principal purpose of which is to transfer anything of value from the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity to the non-Federal entity to carry out a public purpose authorized by a law of the United States (see 31 U.S.C. § 6101(3)); and not to acquire property or services for the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity’s direct benefit or use; (b) Is distinguished from a cooperative agreement in that it does not provide for substantial involvement between the Federal awarding agency or pass- through entity and the non-Federal entity in carrying out the activity contemplated by the Federal award. (c) Does not include an agreement that provides only: (1) Direct United States Government cash assistance to an individual; (2) A subsidy; (3) A loan; (4) A loan guarantee; or (5) Insurance. Grant-supported project or activity Grant-supported project or activity means those activities specified or described in an application or in a subsequent submission that are approved by DOE for funding, regardless of whether Federal funding constitutes all or only a portion of the financial support necessary to carry them out. Grants.gov Grants.gov (https://www.Grants.gov/) has been designated by the Office of Management and Budget as the single access point for all programs offered by 26 Federal grant-making agencies. It provides a single interface for agencies to announce their grant opportunities and for all applicants to find and apply for those opportunities. Indirect costs (facilities & administrative) Indirect (F&A) costs mean those costs incurred for a common or joint purpose benefitting more than one cost objective, and not readily assignable to the cost objectives specifically benefitted, without effort disproportionate to the results achieved. To facilitate equitable distribution of indirect expenses to the cost objectives served, it may be necessary to establish several pools of indirect (F&A) costs. Indirect (F&A) cost pools must be distributed to benefitted cost objectives on bases that will produce an equitable result in consideration of relative benefits derived. Institutional base salary Institutional base salary means the annual compensation paid by an organization for an employee’s appointment, whether that individual’s time is spent on research, teaching, patient care, or other activities. Base salary excludes any income that an individual may be permitted to earn outside of duties for the applicant/recipient organization. Base salary may not be increased as a result of replacing organizational salary funds with grant funds. Matching or cost sharing Matching or cost sharing means the value of third-party in-kind contributions and the portion of the costs of a federally assisted project or program not borne by the Federal government. Matching or cost sharing may be required by statute or program regulation. Costs used to satisfy matching or cost-sharing requirements are subject to the same policies governing allowability as other costs under the approved budget. Merit (or peer) review Merit (or peer) review means the process that involves the consistent application of standards and procedures that produce fair, impartial, and objective examinations of applications based on an evaluation of scientific or technical merit or other relevant aspects of the application. The review is performed by experts (reviewers) in the field of endeavor for which support is requested. Merit review is intended to provide guidance to the DOE individuals responsible for making award decisions. 

Monitoring Monitoring means a process whereby the programmatic and business management performance aspects of an award are assessed by reviewing information gathered from various required reports, audits, site visits, and other sources. NEPA NEPA means the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. § 4331, et seq. , as amended. NEPA requires Federal agencies to assess the environmental effects of proposed major Federal actions prior to making decisions. No-cost extension No-cost extension means an extension of time to a project period and/or budget period to complete the work of the award under that period, without additional Federal funds or competition. Non-Federal share Non-Federal share means when cost sharing or matching is required as a condition of an award, the portion of allowable project/program costs not borne by the Federal government. Request for Application (RFA) Request for Application (RFA) means a publicly available document by which a Federal Agency makes known its intentions to award discretionary grants or cooperative agreements, usually as a result of competition for funds. RFAs may be known as program announcements, requests for applications, notices of funding availability, solicitations, or other names depending on the Agency and type of program. RFAs can be found at www.Grants.gov. Obligations Obligations, when used in connection with a non-Federal entity’s utilization of funds under a Federal award, mean orders placed for property and services, contracts and sub-awards made, and similar transactions during a given period that require payment by the non-Federal entity during the same or a future period. OMB circulars OMB circulars are government-wide guidance issued to Heads of Federal agencies by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Other significant contributors Other significant contributors mean individuals who have committed to contribute to the scientific development or execution of the project, but are not committing any specified measurable effort (i.e., person months) to the project. These individuals are typically presented at “effort of zero person months” or “as needed.” Individuals with measurable effort may not be listed as Other Significant Contributors (OSCs). Consultants should be included if they meet this definition. Other Transactions Other Transactions refer to DOE’s other transactions authorities, including 42 U.S.C. § 7256(a), (g) (1993) Program participant Program participants are the recipients of service or training provided at a workshop, conference, seminar, symposium or other short-term instructional or information-sharing activity funded by an external award, or the training beneficiaries of the project or program funded by an external award. A participant is not involved in providing any deliverable to the recipient or a third party or would not be terminated or replaced for failure to perform. Participant support costs Participant support costs mean direct costs for items such as stipends or subsistence allowances, travel allowances, and registration fees paid to or on behalf of participants or trainees (but not employees) in connection with conferences, or training projects. Person months Person months is the metric for expressing the effort (amount of time) PD/PI(s), faculty and other senior/key personnel devote to a specific project. The effort is based on the type of appointment of the individual with the organization, e.g., calendar year, academic year, and/or summer term; and the organization’s definition of such. For instance, some institutions define the academic year as a nine (9)-month appointment while others define it as a ten- month appointment. Pre-application or pre- proposal Pre-application or pre-proposal means a brief outline or narrative of proposed work and sometimes budget, for informal review by a sponsor to determine 

whether an application should be submitted. Three predominant reasons for requiring submission of a preliminary pre-application are: Reduce the applicant’s unnecessary effort in proposal preparation when the chance of success is very small. This is particularly true of exploratory initiatives where the community senses that a major new direction is being identified, or competitions that will result in a small number of actual awards. Increase the overall quality of the submission. Distill the number of applications that will be submitted to the agency and the number of anticipated reviewers needed to review. Pre-award costs Pre-award costs mean any cost incurred prior to the beginning date of the project period or the initial budget period of a competitive segment (under a multi-year award), in anticipation of the award and at the applicant’s own risk, for otherwise allowable costs. Prior approval Prior approval means written approval from the designated Contracting Officer. Program Director/ Principal Investigator Program Director/ Principal Investigator means the individual(s) designated by the applicant organization to have the appropriate level of authority and responsibility to direct the project or program to be supported by the award. The applicant organization may designate multiple individuals as program directors/principal investigators (PD/PIs) who share the authority and responsibility for leading and directing the project, intellectually and logistically. When multiple PD/PIs are named, each is responsible and accountable to the applicant organization, or as appropriate, to a collaborating organization for the proper conduct of the project or program including the submission of all required reports. The presence of more than one PD/PI on an application or award diminishes neither the responsibility nor the accountability of any individual PD/PI. Program income Program income means gross income earned by the non-Federal entity that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of the Federal award during the period of performance except as provided in 2 C.F.R. § 200.307 paragraph (f). (See 2 C.F.R. § 200.1 Period of performance.) Program income includes but is not limited to income from fees for services performed, the use or rental or real or personal property acquired under Federal awards, the sale of commodities or items fabricated under a Federal award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds. Interest earned on advances of Federal funds is not program income. Except as otherwise provided in Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award, program income does not include rebates, credits, discounts, and interest earned on any of them. See also 2 C.F.R. § 200.407 Prior written approval (prior approval). See also 35 U.S.C. § 200-212 “Disposition of Rights in Educational Awards” for inventions made under Federal awards. Program Manager Program Manager means the DOE official responsible for the programmatic, scientific, and/or technical aspects of a award. The same role is filled by Program Directors, Program Officers, or Project Directors at other Federal agencies. Progress report Progress report means periodic, frequently annual, report submitted by the recipient and used by DOE to assess progress and to determine whether to provide funding for the budget period that covered by the report. Project/performance site Project/ performance site means location(s) of where the work described in the research plan will be conducted. Project period Project period means the total time for which Federal support of a project has been programmatically approved as shown in the award documents; however, it does not constitute a commitment by the Federal government to fund the entire period. The total award period comprises the initial competitive 

segment, any subsequent competitive segments resulting from a renewal award(s), and extensions. Proposal See application. Re-budgeting Re-budgeting means reallocation of funds available for spending between approved budget categories to allow best use of funds to accomplish the project goals. Real Property Real property means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, but excludes moveable machinery and equipment. Recipient Recipient means the organization or individual awarded a OT agreement by DOE that is responsible and accountable for the use of the funds provided and for the performance of the award-supported project or activity. The recipient is the entire legal entity even if a particular component is designated in award documents. The recipient is legally responsible and accountable to DOE for the performance and financial aspects of the award-supported project or activity. Also known as awardee or grantee. Renewal application Renewal application means an application requesting additional funding for a period subsequent to that provided by a current award. Renewal applications compete for funds with all other peer reviewed applications and must be developed as fully as though the applicant is applying for the first time. Research Research is defined as a systematic study directed toward fuller scientific knowledge or understanding of the subject studied. See 2 C.F.R. § 200.1 Research and Development (R&D). Research misconduct Research misconduct means fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing, performing, or reviewing research, or in reporting research results, but does not include honest error or differences of opinion. See 10 C.F.R. § 733. SAM.gov SAM.gov is the System for Award Management (SAM) a consolidated service that includes Entity Registration, Assistance Listings, and other services for making, managing, and receiving Federal awards. Scope of work Scope of work means the aims, objectives, and purposes of an award; as well as the methodology, approach, analyses or other activities; and the tools, technologies, and timeframes needed to meet the award’s objectives. This includes the research or training plan included with the original award application, along with any approved modifications. Senior/Key Personnel Senior/Key personnel means the PD/PI and other individuals who contribute to the scientific development or execution of a project in a substantive, measurable way, whether or not they receive salaries or compensation under the award. Typically, these individuals have doctoral or other professional degrees, although individuals at the masters or baccalaureate level may be considered senior/key personnel if their involvement meets this definition. Consultants and those with a postdoctoral role also may be considered senior/key personnel if they meet this definition. “Zero percent” effort or “as needed” is not an acceptable level of involvement for Senior/Key Personnel. Significant re-budgeting Significant re-budgeting means a threshold that is reached when expenditures in a single direct cost budget category deviate (increase or decrease) from the categorical commitment level established for the budget period by more than 25 percent of the total costs awarded. Significant re-budgeting is one indicator of change in scope. Small business concern Small business concern means a business that meets the regulatory and size requirements established by the SBA at 13 C.F.R. § 121. Solicitation See Request for Application. Subaward Subaward means a legal instrument by which a recipient provides funds (or property in lieu of funds) to an eligible subrecipient (or a lower-tier transaction) to perform a substantive portion of the award-supported program 

or project. The term includes such financial assistance when provided by any legal agreement (even if the agreement is called a contract) but does not include any form of assistance which is excluded from the definition of a award, including the recipient’s procurement of property or services needed to carry out the project or program. The term includes consortium agreements. Subrecipient Subrecipient means a non-Federal entity that receives a subaward from a pass- through entity to carry out part of a Federal program; but does not include an individual that is a beneficiary of such program. A sub-recipient may also be a recipient of other Federal awards directly from a Federal awarding agency. Supplement Supplement means a request for an increase in support during a current budget period for expansion of the project’s scope or to meet increased costs unforeseen at the time of the new or renewal application. A supplement may increase support for future years in addition to the current year. Supplements require applications and are subject to administrative and merit review. Terms and conditions of award Terms and conditions of award means all legal requirements imposed on a award by DOE, whether based on statute, regulation, policy, or other document referenced in the award, or specified by the award document itself. The award documents may include both standard and special conditions that are considered necessary to attain the award’s objectives, facilitate post-award administration of the award, or otherwise protect the Federal government’s interests. UEI UEI is the Unique Entity Identifier, a twelve-digit alphanumerical sequence established and assigned by the System for Award Management at https://www.SAM.gov to uniquely identify an entity. Unallowable costs Unallowable costs mean costs that cannot be charged, directly or indirectly, to Federal awards because the costs are prohibited by law, regulation (including applicable cost principles), or the terms and conditions of award. Costs that are not allowable, allocable, or reasonable are unallowable. Unliquidated obligation Unliquidated obligations mean, for financial reports prepared on a cash basis, obligations incurred by the non-Federal entity that have not been paid (liquidated). For reports prepared on an accrual expenditure basis, these are obligations incurred by the non-Federal entity for which an expenditure has not been recorded. Unobligated balance Unobligated balance means the amount of funds under a Federal award that the non-Federal entity has not obligated. The amount is computed by subtracting the cumulative amount of the non-Federal entity’s unliquidated obligations and expenditures of funds under the Federal award from the cumulative amount of the funds that the Federal awarding agency or pass- through entity authorized the non-Federal entity to obligate. Validate In the context of the data management plan requirements, validate means to support, corroborate, verify, or otherwise determine the legitimacy of the research findings. Validation of research findings could be accomplished by reproducing the original experiment or analyses, comparing and contrasting the results against those of a new experiment or analyses, or by some other means.
