# IX.A Checklist for Avoiding Common Errors

Note that not all items in this checklist will apply to every submission under every RFA. 

Item Issue Applications Submitted in Grants.gov. Do not submit applications in PAMS or FedConnect. Grants.gov Submission Ensure that applications are submitted under the correct Opportunity Number. 

Standard Form (SF)-424 Research and Related (R&R): - Attach nothing to Field 20 - Attach nothing to Field 21 

SF-424 Research and Related Other Project Information form: - Attach the abstract to Field 7 - Attach the Project Narrative, with all appendices, to Field 8 - Attach nothing to Field 9 - Attach nothing to Field 10 - Attach nothing to Field 11 - Attach the list of individuals who should not serve as merit reviewers (Collaborator Template) and Genesis Mission Phase I/II Application Template to Field 12 - Do not attach other files to Field 12 - NOTE: Files attached to Field 12 will not be shared with merit reviewers. Letters of Intent (LOIs) Phase II Applications Only: - Submit your LOI in PAMS. - Do not submit your LOI in Grants.gov. - Do not attach your LOI to the SF-424 Research and Related (R&R) form. - Follow the instructions in Section IV for the preparation of an LOI. Pre-Applications Not applicable Page Limits Strictly followed throughout application, including particular attention to: - Project Narrative and appendices - Biographical sketches 

Item Issue - Data Management and Sharing Plans (DMSPs) - Letter(s) of Collaboration or Access, if any Personally Identifiable Information None present in the application Project Narrative Composed of one PDF file including all appendices (bibliography, facilities, equipment, DMSP for Phase II applications only) Project Summary / Abstract Name of PI, PI’s institutional affiliation(s), Co-Investigator(s), Co-Investigator’s institutional affiliation(s) DOE Title Page Follow instructions closely Budget Use current negotiated indirect cost and fringe benefit rates Budget Justification (attached to budget) Justify all requested costs Biographical Sketches Follow page limits strictly and do not include list of collaborators. Attach the biographical sketch to the Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) Form. Current and Pending Support Ensure complete listing of all activities, regardless of source of funding. Attach the current and pending support to the Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) Form. List of Individuals who Should not Serve as Merit Reviews Attach to Field 12 of the SF-424 Research and Related Other Project Information form. Data Management and Sharing Plans (DMSP) Phase I applications: Not required. It will be required at the time of award. Phase II applications: - If referring to an experiment’s DMSP, describe the relationship to the proposed research. - Include a DMSP even if no experimental data is expected. Institutions capable of being funded through the DOE Field Work System If DOE/NNSA National Laboratories and/or DOE sites are permitted to submit under this RFA: - Do not create new institutions in the PAMS website. - Submit applications in Grants.gov using the name of the laboratory or site in Field 5 of the SF-424(R&R) application form, not the contractor operating the laboratory or site.
